AADAC	Microsomal arylacetamide deacetylase competes against the activity of cytosolic arylamine N-acetyltransferase, which catalyzes one of the initial biotransformation pathways for arylamine and heterocyclic amine carcinogens
AADAT	This gene encodes a protein that is highly similar to mouse and rat kynurenine aminotransferase II. The rat protein is a homodimer with two transaminase activities. One activity is the transamination of alpha-aminoadipic acid, a final step in the saccaropine pathway which is the major pathway for L-lysine catabolism. The other activity involves the transamination of kynurenine to produce kynurenine acid, the precursor of kynurenic acid which has neuroprotective properties. Several transcript variants encoding two different isoforms have been found for this gene.
AAK1	Adaptor-related protein complex 2 (AP-2 complexes) functions during receptor-mediated endocytosis to trigger clathrin assembly, interact with membrane-bound receptors, and recruit encodytic accessory factors. This gene encodes a member of the SNF1 subfamily of Ser/Thr protein kinases. The protein interacts with and phosphorylates a subunit of the AP-2 complex, which promotes binding of AP-2 to sorting signals found in membrane-bound receptors and subsequent receptor endocytosis. Its kinase activity is stimulated by clathrin. Alternatively spliced transcript variants have been described, but their biological validity has not been determined.
AARS	The human alanyl-tRNA synthetase (AARS) belongs to a family of tRNA synthases, of the class II enzymes.  Class II tRNA synthases evolved early in evolution and are highly conserved.  This is reflected by the fact that 498 of the 968-residue polypeptide human AARS shares 41% identity witht the E.coli protein.  tRNA synthases are the enzymes that interpret the RNA code and attach specific aminoacids to the tRNAs that contain the cognate trinucleotide anticodons.  They consist of a catalytic domain which interacts with the amino acid acceptor-T psi C helix of the tRNA, and a second domain which interacts with the rest of the tRNA structure.
AASDHPPT	The protein encoded by this gene is similar to Saccharomyces cerevisiae LYS5, which is required for the activation of the alpha-aminoadipate dehydrogenase in the biosynthetic pathway of lysine. Yeast alpha-aminoadipate dehydrogenase converts alpha-biosynthetic-aminoadipate semialdehyde to alpha-aminoadipate. It has been suggested that defects in the human gene result in pipecolic acidemia.
ABAT	4-aminobutyrate aminotransferase (ABAT) is responsible for catabolism of gamma-aminobutyric acid (GABA), an important, mostly inhibitory neurotransmitter in the central nervous system, into succinic semialdehyde. The active enzyme is a homodimer of 50-kD subunits complexed to pyridoxal-5-phosphate. The protein sequence is over 95% similar to the pig protein. GABA is estimated to be present in nearly one-third of human synapses. ABAT in liver and brain is controlled by 2 codominant alleles with a frequency in a Caucasian population of 0.56 and 0.44. The ABAT deficiency phenotype includes psychomotor retardation, hypotonia, hyperreflexia, lethargy, refractory seizures, and EEG abnormalities. Multiple alternatively spliced transcript variants encoding the same protein isoform have been found for this gene.
ABCA1	The membrane-associated protein encoded by this gene is a member of the superfamily of ATP-binding cassette (ABC) transporters.  ABC proteins transport various molecules across extra- and intracellular membranes.  ABC genes are divided into seven distinct subfamilies (ABC1, MDR/TAP, MRP, ALD, OABP, GCN20, White).  This protein is a member of the ABC1 subfamily.  Members of the ABC1 subfamily comprise the only major ABC subfamily found exclusively in multicellular eukaryotes.  With cholesterol as its substrate, this protein functions as a cholesteral efflux pump in the cellular lipid removal pathway.  Mutations in this gene have been associated with Tangier's disease and familial high-density lipoprotein deficiency.
ABCB1	The membrane-associated protein encoded by this gene is a member of the superfamily of ATP-binding cassette (ABC) transporters. ABC proteins transport various molecules across extra- and intra-cellular membranes. ABC genes are divided into seven distinct subfamilies (ABC1, MDR/TAP, MRP, ALD, OABP, GCN20, White). This protein is a member of the MDR/TAP subfamily. Members of the MDR/TAP subfamily are involved in multidrug resistance. The protein encoded by this gene is an ATP-dependent drug efflux pump for xenobiotic compounds with broad substrate specificity. It is responsible for decreased drug accumulation in multidrug-resistant cells and often mediates the development of resistance to anticancer drugs. This protein also functions as a transporter in the blood-brain barrier. Mutations in this gene are associated with colchicine resistance and Inflammatory bowel disease 13. Alternative splicing and the use of alternative promoters results in multiple transcript variants.
ABCB11	The membrane-associated protein encoded by this gene is a member of the superfamily of ATP-binding cassette (ABC) transporters. ABC proteins transport various molecules across extra- and intra-cellular membranes. ABC genes are divided into seven distinct subfamilies (ABC1, MDR/TAP, MRP, ALD, OABP, GCN20, White). This protein is a member of the MDR/TAP subfamily. Members of the MDR/TAP subfamily are involved in multidrug resistance. The protein encoded by this gene is the major canalicular bile salt export pump in man. Mutations in this gene cause a form of progressive familial intrahepatic cholestases which are a group of inherited disorders with severe cholestatic liver disease from early infancy.
ABCB4	The membrane-associated protein encoded by this gene is a member of the superfamily of ATP-binding cassette (ABC) transporters.  ABC proteins transport various molecules across extra- and intra-cellular membranes.  ABC genes are divided into seven distinct subfamilies (ABC1, MDR/TAP, MRP, ALD, OABP, GCN20, White).  This protein is a member of the MDR/TAP subfamily.  Members of the MDR/TAP subfamily are involved in multidrug resistance as well as antigen presentation.  This gene encodes a full transporter and member of the p-glycoprotein family of membrane proteins with phosphatidylcholine as its substrate.  The function of this protein has not yet been determined; however, it may involve transport of phospholipids from liver hepatocytes into bile.  Alternative splicing of this gene results in several products of undetermined function.
ABCB5	ABCB5 belongs to the ATP-binding cassette (ABC) transporter superfamily of integral membrane proteins. These proteins participate in ATP-dependent transmembrane transport of structurally diverse molecules ranging from small ions, sugars, and peptides to more complex organic molecules (Chen et al., 2005
ABCB6	This gene encodes a member of the ATP-binding cassette (ABC) transporter superfamily. ABC proteins transport various molecules across extra- and intra-cellular membranes. This protein is a member of the heavy metal importer subfamily and plays a role in porphyrin transport. This gene is the molecular basis of the Langereis (Lan) blood group antigen and mutations in this gene underlie familial pseudohyperkalemia and dyschromatosis universalis hereditaria.
ABCB9	The membrane-associated protein encoded by this gene is a member of the superfamily of ATP-binding cassette (ABC) transporters. ABC proteins transport various molecules across extra- and intra-cellular membranes. ABC genes are divided into seven distinct subfamilies (ABC1, MDR/TAP, MRP, ALD, OABP, GCN20, White). This protein is a member of the MDR/TAP subfamily. Members of the MDR/TAP subfamily are involved in multidrug resistance as well as antigen presentation. This family member functions in the translocation of peptides from the cytosol into the lysosomal lumen. Alternative splicing of this gene results in distinct isoforms which are likely to have different substrate specificities.
ABCC1	The protein encoded by this gene is a member of the superfamily of ATP-binding cassette (ABC) transporters. ABC proteins transport various molecules across extra-and intra-cellular membranes. ABC genes are divided into seven distinct subfamilies (ABC1, MDR/TAP, MRP, ALD, OABP, GCN20, White). This full transporter is a member of the MRP subfamily which is involved in multi-drug resistance. This protein functions as a multispecific organic anion transporter, with oxidized glutatione, cysteinyl leukotrienes, and activated aflatoxin B1 as substrates. This protein also transports glucuronides and sulfate conjugates of steroid hormones and bile salts. Alternatively spliced variants of this gene have been described but their full-length nature is unknown.
ABCC10	The protein encoded by this gene is a member of the superfamily of ATP-binding cassette (ABC) transporters. ABC proteins transport various molecules across extra- and intra-cellular membranes. ABC genes are divided into seven distinct subfamilies (ABC1, MDR/TAP, MRP, ALD, OABP, GCN20, and White). This ABC full-transporter is a member of the MRP subfamily which is involved in multi-drug resistance. Multiple transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been found for this gene.
ABCC11	The protein encoded by this gene is a member of the superfamily of ATP-binding cassette (ABC) transporters. ABC proteins transport various molecules across extra- and intra-cellular membranes. ABC genes are divided into seven distinct subfamilies (ABC1, MDR/TAP, MRP, ALD, OABP, GCN20, White). This ABC full transporter is a member of the MRP subfamily which is involved in multi-drug resistance. The product of this gene participates in physiological processes involving bile acids, conjugated steroids, and cyclic nucleotides. In addition, a SNP in this gene is responsible for determination of human earwax type. This gene and family member ABCC12 are determined to be derived by duplication and are both localized to chromosome 16q12.1. Multiple alternatively spliced transcript variants have been described for this gene.
ABCC2	The protein encoded by this gene is a member of the superfamily of ATP-binding cassette (ABC) transporters. ABC proteins transport various molecules across extra- and intra-cellular membranes. ABC genes are divided into seven distinct subfamilies (ABC1, MDR/TAP, MRP, ALD, OABP, GCN20, White). This protein is a member of the MRP subfamily which is involved in multi-drug resistance. This protein is expressed in the canalicular (apical) part of the hepatocyte and functions in biliary transport. Substrates include anticancer drugs such as vinblastine; therefore, this protein appears to contribute to drug resistance in mammalian cells. Several different mutations in this gene have been observed in patients with Dubin-Johnson syndrome (DJS), an autosomal recessive disorder characterized by conjugated hyperbilirubinemia.
ABCC3	The protein encoded by this gene is a member of the superfamily of ATP-binding cassette (ABC) transporters. ABC proteins transport various molecules across extra- and intra-cellular membranes. ABC genes are divided into seven distinct subfamilies (ABC1, MDR/TAP, MRP, ALD, OABP, GCN20, White). This protein is a member of the MRP subfamily which is involved in multi-drug resistance. The specific function of this protein has not yet been determined; however, this protein may play a role in the transport of biliary and intestinal excretion of organic anions. Alternatively spliced variants which encode different protein isoforms have been described; however, not all variants have been fully characterized.
ABCC4	The protein encoded by this gene is a member of the superfamily of ATP-binding cassette (ABC) transporters. ABC proteins transport various molecules across extra- and intra-cellular membranes. ABC genes are divided into seven distinct subfamilies (ABC1, MDR/TAP, MRP, ALD, OABP, GCN20, White). This protein is a member of the MRP subfamily which is involved in multi-drug resistance. This family member plays a role in cellular detoxification as a pump for its substrate, organic anions. It may also function in prostaglandin-mediated cAMP signaling in ciliogenesis. Alternative splicing of this gene results in multiple transcript variants.
ABCC5	The protein encoded by this gene is a member of the superfamily of ATP-binding cassette (ABC) transporters. ABC proteins transport various molecules across extra- and intra-cellular membranes. ABC genes are divided into seven distinct subfamilies (ABC1, MDR/TAP, MRP, ALD, OABP, GCN20, White). This protein is a member of the MRP subfamily which is involved in multi-drug resistance. This protein functions in the cellular export of its substrate, cyclic nucleotides. This export contributes to the degradation of phosphodiesterases and possibly an elimination pathway for cyclic nucleotides. Studies show that this protein provides resistance to thiopurine anticancer drugs, 6-mercatopurine and thioguanine, and the anti-HIV drug 9-(2-phosphonylmethoxyethyl)adenine. This protein may be involved in resistance to thiopurines in acute lymphoblastic leukemia and antiretroviral nucleoside analogs in HIV-infected patients. Alternative splicing results in multiple transcript variants.
ABCC6	The protein encoded by this gene is a member of the superfamily of ATP-binding cassette (ABC) transporters. ABC proteins transport various molecules across extra- and intra-cellular membranes. ABC genes are divided into seven distinct subfamilies (ABC1, MDR/TAP, MRP, ALD, OABP, GCN20, White). The encoded protein, a member of the MRP subfamily, is involved in multi-drug resistance. Mutations in this gene cause pseudoxanthoma elasticum. Alternatively spliced transcript variants that encode different proteins have been described for this gene.
ABCC8	The protein encoded by this gene is a member of the superfamily of ATP-binding cassette (ABC) transporters. ABC proteins transport various molecules across extra- and intra-cellular membranes. ABC genes are divided into seven distinct subfamilies (ABC1, MDR/TAP, MRP, ALD, OABP, GCN20, White). This protein is a member of the MRP subfamily which is involved in multi-drug resistance. This protein functions as a modulator of ATP-sensitive potassium channels and insulin release. Mutations and deficiencies in this protein have been observed in patients with hyperinsulinemic hypoglycemia of infancy, an autosomal recessive disorder of unregulated and high insulin secretion. Mutations have also been associated with non-insulin-dependent diabetes mellitus type II, an autosomal dominant disease of defective insulin secretion. Alternatively spliced transcript variants have been found for this gene.
ABCC9	The protein encoded by this gene is a member of the superfamily of ATP-binding cassette (ABC) transporters. ABC proteins transport various molecules across extra- and intra-cellular membranes. ABC genes are divided into seven distinct subfamilies (ABC1, MDR/TAP, MRP, ALD, OABP, GCN20, White). This protein is a member of the MRP subfamily which is involved in multi-drug resistance. This protein is thought to form ATP-sensitive potassium channels in cardiac, skeletal, and vascular and non-vascular smooth muscle. Protein structure suggests a role as the drug-binding channel-modulating subunit of the extra-pancreatic ATP-sensitive potassium channels. Mutations in this gene are associated with cardiomyopathy dilated type 1O. Alternative splicing results in multiple transcript variants.
ABCG2	The membrane-associated protein encoded by this gene is included in the superfamily of ATP-binding cassette (ABC) transporters. ABC proteins transport various molecules across extra- and intra-cellular membranes. ABC genes are divided into seven distinct subfamilies (ABC1, MDR/TAP, MRP, ALD, OABP, GCN20, White). This protein is a member of the White subfamily. Alternatively referred to as a breast cancer resistance protein, this protein functions as a xenobiotic transporter which may play a major role in multi-drug resistance. It likely serves as a cellular defense mechanism in response to mitoxantrone and anthracycline exposure. Significant expression of this protein has been observed in the placenta, which may suggest a potential role for this molecule in placenta tissue. Multiple transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been found for this gene.
ABHD11	This gene encodes a protein containing an alpha/beta hydrolase fold domain. This gene is deleted in Williams syndrome, a multisystem developmental disorder caused by the deletion of contiguous genes at 7q11.23.
ABHD12	This gene encodes an enzyme that catalyzes the hydrolysis of 2-arachidonoyl glycerol (2-AG), the main endocannabinoid lipid transmitter that acts on cannabinoid receptors, CB1 and CB2. The endocannabinoid system is involved in a wide range of physiological processes, including neurotransmission, mood, appetite, pain appreciation, addiction behavior, and inflammation. Mutations in this gene are associated with the neurodegenerative disease, PHARC (polyneuropathy, hearing loss, ataxia, retinitis pigmentosa, and cataract), resulting from an inborn error of endocannabinoid metabolism. Alternatively spliced transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been noted for this gene.
ABHD16A	A cluster of genes, BAT1-BAT5, has been localized in the vicinity of the genes for tumor necrosis factor alpha and tumor necrosis factor beta. These genes are all within the human major histocompatibility complex class III region. The protein encoded by this gene is thought to be involved in some aspects of immunity. Alternatively spliced transcript variants have been described.
ABHD17B	Hydrolyzes fatty acids from S-acylated cysteine residues in proteins .
ABHD6	Lipase that preferentially hydrolysis medium-chain saturated monoacylglycerols including 2-arachidonoylglycerol .
ABL1	This gene is a protooncogene that encodes a protein tyrosine kinase involved in a variety of cellular processes, including cell division, adhesion, differentiation, and response to stress. The activity of the protein is negatively regulated by its SH3 domain, whereby deletion of the region encoding this domain results in an oncogene. The ubiquitously expressed protein has DNA-binding activity that is regulated by CDC2-mediated phosphorylation, suggesting a cell cycle function. This gene has been found fused to a variety of translocation partner genes in various leukemias, most notably the t(9;22) translocation that results in a fusion with the 5' end of the breakpoint cluster region gene (BCR; MIM:151410). Alternative splicing of this gene results in two transcript variants, which contain alternative first exons that are spliced to the remaining common exons.
ABL2	This gene encodes a member of the Abelson family of nonreceptor tyrosine protein kinases. The protein is highly similar to the c-abl oncogene 1 protein, including the tyrosine kinase, SH2 and SH3 domains, and it plays a role in cytoskeletal rearrangements through its C-terminal F-actin- and microtubule-binding sequences. This gene is expressed in both normal and tumor cells, and is involved in translocation with the ets variant 6 gene in leukemia. Multiple alternatively spliced transcript variants encoding different protein isoforms have been found for this gene.
ACACA	Acetyl-CoA carboxylase (ACC) is a complex multifunctional enzyme system. ACC is a biotin-containing enzyme which catalyzes the carboxylation of acetyl-CoA to malonyl-CoA, the rate-limiting step in fatty acid synthesis. There are two ACC forms, alpha and beta, encoded by two different genes. ACC-alpha is highly enriched in lipogenic tissues. The enzyme is under long term control at the transcriptional and translational levels and under short term regulation by the phosphorylation/dephosphorylation of targeted serine residues and by allosteric transformation by citrate or palmitoyl-CoA. Multiple alternatively spliced transcript variants divergent in the 5' sequence and encoding distinct isoforms have been found for this gene.
ACACB	 Acetyl-CoA carboxylase (ACC) is a complex multifunctional enzyme system. ACC is a biotin-containing enzyme which catalyzes the carboxylation of acetyl-CoA to malonyl-CoA, the rate-limiting step in fatty acid synthesis.  ACC-beta is thought to control fatty acid oxidation by means of the ability of malonyl-CoA to inhibit carnitine-palmitoyl-CoA transferase I, the rate-limiting step in fatty acid uptake and oxidation by mitochondria.  ACC-beta may be involved in the regulation of fatty acid oxidation, rather than fatty acid biosynthesis.  There is evidence for the presence of two ACC-beta isoforms.
ACAT1	This gene encodes a mitochondrially localized enzyme that catalyzes the reversible formation of acetoacetyl-CoA from two molecules of acetyl-CoA. Defects in this gene are associated with 3-ketothiolase deficiency, an inborn error of isoleucine catabolism characterized by urinary excretion of 2-methyl-3-hydroxybutyric acid, 2-methylacetoacetic acid, tiglylglycine, and butanone.
ACE	This gene encodes an enzyme involved in catalyzing the conversion of angiotensin I into a physiologically active peptide angiotensin II. Angiotensin II is a potent vasopressor and aldosterone-stimulating peptide that controls blood pressure and fluid-electrolyte balance. This enzyme plays a key role in the renin-angiotensin system. Many studies have associated the presence or absence of a 287 bp Alu repeat element in this gene with the levels of circulating enzyme or cardiovascular pathophysiologies. Multiple alternatively spliced transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been identified, and two most abundant spliced variants encode the somatic form and the testicular form, respectively, that are equally active.
ACE2	The protein encoded by this gene belongs to the angiotensin-converting enzyme family of dipeptidyl carboxydipeptidases and has considerable homology to human angiotensin 1 converting enzyme. This secreted protein catalyzes the cleavage of angiotensin I into angiotensin 1-9, and angiotensin II into the vasodilator angiotensin 1-7. The organ- and cell-specific expression of this gene suggests that it may play a role in the regulation of cardiovascular and renal function, as well as fertility. In addition, the encoded protein is a functional receptor for the spike glycoprotein of the human coronaviruses SARS and HCoV-NL63.
ACER1	Ceramides are synthesized during epidermal differentiation and accumulate within the interstices of the stratum corneum, where they represent critical components of the epidermal permeability barrier. Excess cellular ceramide can trigger antimitogenic signals and induce apoptosis, and the ceramide metabolites sphingosine and sphingosine-1-phosphate (S1P) are important bioregulatory molecules. Ceramide hydrolysis in the nucleated cell layers regulates keratinocyte proliferation and apoptosis in response to external stress. Ceramide hydrolysis also occurs at the stratum corneum, releasing free sphingoid base that functions as an endogenous antimicrobial agent. ACER1 is highly expressed in epidermis and catalyzes the hydrolysis of very long chain ceramides to generate sphingosine (Houben et al., 2006
ACER2	The sphingolipid metabolite sphingosine-1-phosphate promotes cell proliferation and survival, whereas its precursor, sphingosine, has the opposite effect. The ceramidase ACER2 hydrolyzes very long chain ceramides to generate sphingosine (Xu et al., 2006
ACHE	Acetylcholinesterase hydrolyzes the neurotransmitter, acetylcholine at neuromuscular junctions and brain cholinergic synapses, and thus terminates signal transmission. It is also found on the red blood cell membranes, where it constitutes the Yt blood group antigen. Acetylcholinesterase exists in multiple molecular forms which possess similar catalytic properties, but differ in their oligomeric assembly and mode of cell attachment to the cell surface. It is encoded by the single ACHE gene, and the structural diversity in the gene products arises from alternative mRNA splicing, and post-translational associations of catalytic and structural subunits. The major form of acetylcholinesterase found in brain, muscle and other tissues is the hydrophilic species, which forms disulfide-linked oligomers with collagenous, or lipid-containing structural subunits. The other, alternatively spliced form, expressed primarily in the erythroid tissues, differs at the C-terminal end, and contains a cleavable hydrophobic peptide with a GPI-anchor site. It associates with the membranes through the phosphoinositide (PI) moieties added post-translationally.
ACKR3	This gene encodes a member of the G-protein coupled receptor family. Although this protein was earlier thought to be a receptor for vasoactive intestinal peptide (VIP), it is now considered to be an orphan receptor, in that its endogenous ligand has not been identified. The protein is also a coreceptor for human immunodeficiency viruses (HIV). Translocations involving this gene and HMGA2 on chromosome 12 have been observed in lipomas.
ACLY	ATP citrate lyase is the primary enzyme responsible for the synthesis of cytosolic acetyl-CoA in many tissues. The enzyme is a tetramer (relative molecular weight approximately 440,000) of apparently identical subunits. It catalyzes the formation of acetyl-CoA and oxaloacetate from citrate and CoA with a concomitant hydrolysis of ATP to ADP and phosphate. The product, acetyl-CoA, serves several important biosynthetic pathways, including lipogenesis and cholesterogenesis. In nervous tissue, ATP citrate-lyase may be involved in the biosynthesis of acetylcholine. Multiple transcript variants encoding distinct isoforms have been identified for this gene.
ACOT1	Acyl-CoA thioesterases are a group of enzymes that catalyze the hydrolysis of acyl-CoAs into free fatty acids and coenzyme A (CoASH), regulating intracellular levels of acyl-CoAs, free fatty acids and CoASH. More active towards saturated and unsaturated long chain fatty acyl-CoAs (C12-C20).
ACOT2	This gene encodes a member of the acyl-CoA thioesterase protein family, and is one of four acyl-CoA hydrolase genes located in a cluster on chromosome 14. Alternative splicing results in multiple transcript variants.
ACP1	The product of this gene belongs to the phosphotyrosine protein phosphatase family of proteins. It functions as an acid phosphatase and a protein tyrosine phosphatase by hydrolyzing protein tyrosine phosphate to protein tyrosine and orthophosphate. This enzyme also hydrolyzes orthophosphoric monoesters to alcohol and orthophosphate. This gene is genetically polymorphic, and three common alleles segregating at the corresponding locus give rise to six phenotypes. Each allele appears to encode at least two electrophoretically different isozymes, Bf and Bs, which are produced in allele-specific ratios. Multiple alternatively spliced transcript variants encoding distinct isoforms have been identified for this gene.
ACPP	This gene encodes an enzyme that catalyzes the conversion of orthophosphoric monoester to alcohol and orthophosphate. It is synthesized under androgen regulation and is secreted by the epithelial cells of the prostate gland. An alternatively spliced transcript variant encoding a longer isoform has been found for this gene. This isoform contains a transmembrane domain and is localized in the plasma membrane-endosomal-lysosomal pathway.
ACR	Acrosin is the major proteinase present in the acrosome of mature spermatozoa. It is a typical serine proteinase with trypsin-like specificity. It is stored in the acrosome in its precursor form, proacrosin. The active enzyme functions in the lysis of the zona pellucida, thus facilitating penetration of the sperm through the innermost glycoprotein layers of the ovum. The mRNA for proacrosin is synthesized only in the postmeiotic stages of spermatogenesis. In humans proacrosin first appears in the haploid spermatids.
ACTB	This gene encodes one of six different actin proteins. Actins are highly conserved proteins that are involved in cell motility, structure, integrity, and intercellular signaling. The encoded protein is a major constituent of the contractile apparatus and one of the two nonmuscle cytoskeletal actins that are ubiquitously expressed. Mutations in this gene cause Baraitser-Winter syndrome 1, which is characterized by intellectual disability with a distinctive facial appearance in human patients. Numerous pseudogenes of this gene have been identified throughout the human genome.
ACTR2	The specific function of this gene has not yet been determined; however, the protein it encodes is known to be a major constituent of the ARP2/3 complex. This complex is located at the cell surface and is essential to cell shape and motility through lamellipodial actin assembly and protrusion. Two transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been found for this gene.
ACVR1	Activins are dimeric growth and differentiation factors which belong to the transforming growth factor-beta (TGF-beta) superfamily of structurally related signaling proteins. Activins signal through a heteromeric complex of receptor serine kinases which include at least two type I ( I and IB) and two type II (II and IIB) receptors. These receptors are all transmembrane proteins, composed of a ligand-binding extracellular domain with cysteine-rich region, a transmembrane domain, and a cytoplasmic domain with predicted serine/threonine specificity. Type I receptors are essential for signaling; and type II receptors are required for binding ligands and for expression of type I receptors. Type I and II receptors form a stable complex after ligand binding, resulting in phosphorylation of type I receptors by type II receptors. This gene encodes activin A type I receptor which signals a particular transcriptional response in concert with activin type II receptors. Mutations in this gene are associated with fibrodysplasia ossificans progressive.
ACVR1B	This gene encodes an activin A type IB receptor. Activins are dimeric growth and differentiation factors which belong to the transforming growth factor-beta (TGF-beta) superfamily of structurally related signaling proteins. Activins signal through a heteromeric complex of receptor serine kinases which include at least two type I and two type II receptors. This protein is a type I receptor which is essential for signaling. Mutations in this gene are associated with pituitary tumors. Alternate splicing results in multiple transcript variants.
ACVR1C	ACVR1C is a type I receptor for the TGFB (see MIM 190180) family of signaling molecules. Upon ligand binding, type I receptors phosphorylate cytoplasmic SMAD transcription factors, which then translocate to the nucleus and interact directly with DNA or in complex with other transcription factors (Bondestam et al., 2001
ACVR2A	This gene encodes a receptor that mediates the functions of activins, which are members of the transforming growth factor-beta (TGF-beta) superfamily involved in diverse biological processes. The encoded protein is a transmembrane serine-threonine kinase receptor which mediates signaling by forming heterodimeric complexes with various combinations of type I and type II receptors and ligands in a cell-specific manner. The encoded type II receptor is primarily involved in ligand-binding and includes an extracellular ligand-binding domain, a transmembrane domain and a cytoplasmic serine-threonine kinase domain. This gene may be associated with susceptibility to preeclampsia, a pregnancy-related disease which can result in maternal and fetal morbidity and mortality. Alternative splicing results in multiple transcript variants of this gene.
ACVR2B	Activins are dimeric growth and differentiation factors which belong to the transforming growth factor-beta (TGF-beta) superfamily of structurally related signaling proteins. Activins signal through a heteromeric complex of receptor serine kinases which include at least two type I (I and IB) and two type II (II and IIB) receptors. These receptors are all transmembrane proteins, composed of a ligand-binding extracellular domain with cysteine-rich region, a transmembrane domain, and a cytoplasmic domain with predicted serine/threonine specificity. Type I receptors are essential for signaling; and type II receptors are required for binding ligands and for expression of type I receptors. Type I and II receptors form a stable complex after ligand binding, resulting in phosphorylation of type I receptors by type II receptors. Type II receptors are considered to be constitutively active kinases. This gene encodes activin A type IIB receptor, which displays a 3- to 4-fold higher affinity for the ligand than activin A type II receptor.
ACVRL1	This gene encodes a type I cell-surface receptor for the TGF-beta superfamily of ligands. It shares with other type I receptors a high degree of similarity in serine-threonine kinase subdomains, a glycine- and serine-rich region (called the GS domain) preceding the kinase domain, and a short C-terminal tail. The encoded protein, sometimes termed ALK1, shares similar domain structures with other closely related ALK or activin receptor-like kinase proteins that form a subfamily of receptor serine/threonine kinases. Mutations in this gene are associated with hemorrhagic telangiectasia type 2, also known as Rendu-Osler-Weber syndrome 2.
ADA	This gene encodes an enzyme that catalyzes the hydrolysis of adenosine to inosine. Various mutations have been described for this gene and have been linked to human diseases. Deficiency in this enzyme causes a form of severe combined immunodeficiency disease (SCID), in which there is dysfunction of both B and T lymphocytes with impaired cellular immunity and decreased production of immunoglobulins, whereas elevated levels of this enzyme have been associated with congenital hemolytic anemia.
ADAL	Putative nucleoside deaminase. May catalyze the hydrolytic deamination of adenosine or some similar substrate and play a role in purine metabolism (By similarity).
ADAM10	Members of the ADAM family are cell surface proteins with a unique structure possessing both potential adhesion and protease domains. This gene encodes and ADAM family member that cleaves many proteins including TNF-alpha and E-cadherin. Alternate splicing results in multiple transcript variants encoding different proteins that may undergo similar processing.
ADAM12	This gene encodes a member of a family of proteins that are structurally related to snake venom disintegrins and have been implicated in a variety of biological processes involving cell-cell and cell-matrix interactions, including fertilization, muscle development, and neurogenesis. Expression of this gene has been used as a maternal serum marker for pre-natal development. Alternative splicing results in multiple transcript variants encoding different isoforms. Shorter isoforms are secreted, while longer isoforms are membrane-bound form.
ADAM15	The protein encoded by this gene is a member of the ADAM (a disintegrin and metalloproteinase) protein family. ADAM family members are type I transmembrane glycoproteins known to be involved in cell adhesion and proteolytic ectodomain processing of cytokines and adhesion molecules. This protein contains multiple functional domains including a zinc-binding metalloprotease domain, a disintegrin-like domain, as well as a EGF-like domain. Through its disintegrin-like domain, this protein specifically interacts with the integrin beta chain, beta 3. It also interacts with Src family protein-tyrosine kinases in a phosphorylation-dependent manner, suggesting that this protein may function in cell-cell adhesion as well as in cellular signaling. Multiple alternatively spliced transcript variants encoding distinct isoforms have been observed.
ADAM17	This gene encodes a member of the ADAM (a disintegrin and metalloprotease domain) family. Members of this family are membrane-anchored proteins structurally related to snake venom disintegrins, and have been implicated in a variety of biologic processes involving cell-cell and cell-matrix interactions, including fertilization, muscle development, and neurogenesis. The encoded preproprotein is proteolytically processed to generate the mature protease. The encoded protease functions in the ectodomain shedding of tumor necrosis factor-alpha, in which soluble tumor necrosis factor-alpha is released from the membrane-bound precursor. This protease also functions in the processing of numerous other substrates, including cell adhesion proteins, cytokine and growth factor receptors and epidermal growth factor (EGF) receptor ligands. The encoded protein also plays a prominent role in the activation of the Notch signaling pathway. Elevated expression of this gene has been observed in specific cell types derived from psoriasis, rheumatoid arthritis, multiple sclerosis and Crohn's disease patients, suggesting that the encoded protein may play a role in autoimmune disease.
ADAM33	This gene encodes a member of the ADAM (a disintegrin and metalloprotease domain) family. Members of this family are membrane-anchored proteins structurally related to snake venom disintegrins, and have been implicated in a variety of biological processes involving cell-cell and cell-matrix interactions, including fertilization, muscle development, and neurogenesis. This protein is a type I transmembrane protein implicated in asthma and bronchial hyperresponsiveness. Alternative splicing results in multiple transcript variants encoding different isoforms.
ADAM8	This gene encodes a member of the ADAM (a disintegrin and metalloprotease domain) family. Members of this family are membrane-anchored proteins structurally related to snake venom disintegrins, and have been implicated in a variety of biological processes involving cell-cell and cell-matrix interactions, including fertilization, muscle development, and neurogenesis. The protein encoded by this gene may be involved in cell adhesion during neurodegeneration, and it is thought to be a target for allergic respiratory diseases, including asthma. Alternative splicing results in multiple transcript variants.
ADAM9	This gene encodes a member of the ADAM (a disintegrin and metalloprotease domain) family. Members of this family are membrane-anchored proteins structurally related to snake venom disintegrins, and have been implicated in a variety of biological processes involving cell-cell and cell-matrix interactions, including fertilization, muscle development, and neurogenesis. The protein encoded by this gene interacts with SH3 domain-containing proteins, binds mitotic arrest deficient 2 beta protein, and is also involved in TPA-induced ectodomain shedding of membrane-anchored heparin-binding EGF-like growth factor. Several alternatively spliced transcript variants have been identified for this gene.
ADAMTS1	This gene encodes a member of the ADAMTS (a disintegrin and metalloproteinase with thrombospondin motif) protein family. Members of the family share several distinct protein modules, including a propeptide region, a metalloproteinase domain, a disintegrin-like domain, and a thrombospondin type 1 (TS) motif. Individual members of this family differ in the number of C-terminal TS motifs, and some have unique C-terminal domains. The protein encoded by this gene contains two disintegrin loops and three C-terminal TS motifs and has anti-angiogenic activity. The expression of this gene may be associated with various inflammatory processes as well as development of cancer cachexia. This gene is likely to be necessary for normal growth, fertility, and organ morphology and function.
ADAMTS13	This gene encodes a member of a family of proteins containing several distinct regions, including a metalloproteinase domain, a disintegrin-like domain, and a thrombospondin type 1 (TS) motif. The enzyme encoded by this gene specifically cleaves von Willebrand Factor (vWF). Defects in this gene are associated with thrombotic thrombocytopenic purpura. Alternative splicing results in multiple transcript variants.
ADAMTS4	This gene encodes a member of the ADAMTS (a disintegrin and metalloproteinase with thrombospondin motifs) protein family. Members of this family share several distinct protein modules, including a propeptide region, a metalloproteinase domain, a disintegrin-like domain, and a thrombospondin type 1 (TS) motif. Individual members of this family differ in the number of C-terminal TS motifs, and some have unique C-terminal domains. The enzyme encoded by this gene lacks a C-terminal TS motif. The encoded preproprotein is proteolytically processed to generate the mature protease. This protease is responsible for the degradation of aggrecan, a major proteoglycan of cartilage, and brevican, a brain-specific extracellular matrix protein. The expression of this gene is upregulated in arthritic disease and this may contribute to disease progression through the degradation of aggrecan. Alternative splicing results in multiple transcript variants, at least one of which encodes an isoform that is proteolytically processed.
ADAMTS5	This gene encodes a member of the ADAMTS (a disintegrin and metalloproteinase with thrombospondin motifs) protein family. Members of the family share several distinct protein modules, including a propeptide region, a metalloproteinase domain, a disintegrin-like domain, and a thrombospondin type 1 (TS) motif. Individual members of this family differ in the number of C-terminal TS motifs, and some have unique C-terminal domains. The encoded preproprotein is proteolytically processed to generate the mature enzyme. This enzyme contains two C-terminal TS motifs and functions as an aggrecanase that cleaves aggrecan, a major proteoglycan of cartilage, and may mediate cartilage destruction in osteoarthritis.
ADCY1	This gene encodes a member of the of adenylate cyclase gene family that is primarily expressed in the brain. This protein is regulated by calcium/calmodulin concentration and may be involved in brain development. Alternate splicing results in multiple transcript variants.
ADCY10	The protein encoded by this gene belongs to a distinct class of adenylyl cyclases that is soluble and insensitive to G protein or forskolin regulation. Activity of this protein is regulated by bicarbonate. Variation at this gene has been observed in patients with absorptive hypercalciuria. Alternatively spliced transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been observed. There is a pseudogene of this gene on chromosome 6.
ADCY2	This gene encodes a member of the family of adenylate cyclases, which are membrane-associated enzymes that catalyze the formation of the secondary messenger cyclic adenosine monophosphate (cAMP). This enzyme is insensitive to Ca(2+)/calmodulin, and is stimulated by the G protein beta and gamma subunit complex.
ADCY5	This gene encodes a member of the membrane-bound adenylyl cyclase enzymes. Adenylyl cyclases mediate G protein-coupled receptor signaling through the synthesis of the second messenger cAMP. Activity of the encoded protein is stimulated by the Gs alpha subunit of G protein-coupled receptors and is inhibited by protein kinase A, calcium and Gi alpha subunits. Single nucleotide polymorphisms in this gene may be associated with low birth weight and type 2 diabetes. Alternatively spliced transcript variants that encode different isoforms have been observed for this gene.
ADCY6	This gene encodes a member of the adenylyl cyclase family of proteins, which are required for the synthesis of cyclic AMP. All members of this family have an intracellular N-terminus, a tandem repeat of six transmembrane domains separated by a cytoplasmic loop, and a C-terminal cytoplasmic domain. The two cytoplasmic regions bind ATP and form the catalytic core of the protein. Adenylyl cyclases are important effectors of transmembrane signaling pathways and are regulated by the activity of G protein coupled receptor signaling. This protein belongs to a small subclass of adenylyl cyclase proteins that are functionally related and are inhibited by protein kinase A, calcium ions and nitric oxide. A mutation in this gene is associated with arthrogryposis multiplex congenita.
ADCY9	Adenylate cyclase is a membrane bound enzyme that catalyses the formation of cyclic AMP from ATP. It is regulated by a family of G protein-coupled receptors, protein kinases, and calcium. The type 9 adenylyl cyclase is a widely distributed adenylyl cyclase, and it is stimulated by beta-adrenergic receptor activation but is insensitive to forskolin, calcium, and somatostatin.
ADCYAP1	This gene encodes a secreted proprotein that is further processed into multiple mature peptides. These peptides stimulate adenylate cyclase and increase cyclic adenosine monophosphate (cAMP) levels, resulting in the transcriptional activation of target genes. The products of this gene are key mediators of neuroendocrine stress responses. Alternative splicing results in multiple transcript variants.
ADCYAP1R1	This gene encodes type I adenylate cyclase activating polypeptide receptor, which is a membrane-associated protein and shares significant homology with members of the glucagon/secretin receptor family. This receptor mediates diverse biological actions of adenylate cyclase activating polypeptide 1 and is positively coupled to adenylate cyclase. Multiple alternatively spliced transcript variants encoding distinct isoforms have been identified.
ADH1A	This gene encodes a member of the alcohol dehydrogenase family. The encoded protein is the alpha subunit of class I alcohol dehydrogenase, which consists of several homo- and heterodimers of alpha, beta and gamma subunits. Alcohol dehydrogenases catalyze the oxidation of alcohols to aldehydes. This gene is active in the liver in early fetal life but only weakly active in adult liver. This gene is found in a cluster with six additional alcohol dehydrogenase genes, including those encoding the beta and gamma subunits, on the long arm of chromosome 4. Mutations in this gene may contribute to variation in certain personality traits and substance dependence.
ADH1B	The protein encoded by this gene is a member of the alcohol dehydrogenase family. Members of this enzyme family metabolize a wide variety of substrates, including ethanol, retinol, other aliphatic alcohols, hydroxysteroids, and lipid peroxidation products. This encoded protein, consisting of several homo- and heterodimers of alpha, beta, and gamma subunits, exhibits high activity for ethanol oxidation and plays a major role in ethanol catabolism. Three genes encoding alpha, beta and gamma subunits are tandemly organized in a genomic segment as a gene cluster. Two transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been found for this gene.
ADH4	This gene encodes class II alcohol dehydrogenase 4 pi subunit, which is a member of the alcohol dehydrogenase family. Members of this enzyme family metabolize a wide variety of substrates, including ethanol, retinol, other aliphatic alcohols, hydroxysteroids, and lipid peroxidation products. Class II alcohol dehydrogenase is a homodimer composed of 2 pi subunits. It exhibits a high activity for oxidation of long-chain aliphatic alcohols and aromatic alcohols and is less sensitive to pyrazole. This gene is localized to chromosome 4 in the cluster of alcohol dehydrogenase genes.
ADH5	This gene encodes a member of the alcohol dehydrogenase family. Members of this family metabolize a wide variety of substrates, including ethanol, retinol, other aliphatic alcohols, hydroxysteroids, and lipid peroxidation products. The encoded protein forms a homodimer. It has virtually no activity for ethanol oxidation, but exhibits high activity for oxidation of long-chain primary alcohols and for oxidation of S-hydroxymethyl-glutathione, a spontaneous adduct between formaldehyde and glutathione. This enzyme is an important component of cellular metabolism for the elimination of formaldehyde, a potent irritant and sensitizing agent that causes lacrymation, rhinitis, pharyngitis, and contact dermatitis. The human genome contains several non-transcribed pseudogenes related to this gene.
ADH7	This gene encodes class IV alcohol dehydrogenase 7 mu or sigma subunit, which is a member of the alcohol dehydrogenase family. Members of this family metabolize a wide variety of substrates, including ethanol, retinol, other aliphatic alcohols, hydroxysteroids, and lipid peroxidation products. The enzyme encoded by this gene is inefficient in ethanol oxidation, but is the most active as a retinol dehydrogenase; thus it may participate in the synthesis of retinoic acid, a hormone important for cellular differentiation. The expression of this gene is much more abundant in stomach than liver, thus differing from the other known gene family members. Alternative splicing results in multiple transcript variants.
ADHFE1	The ADHFE1 gene encodes hydroxyacid-oxoacid transhydrogenase (EC 1.1.99.24), which is responsible for the oxidation of 4-hydroxybutyrate in mammalian tissues (Kardon et al., 2006
ADI1	This gene encodes an enzyme that belongs to the aci-reductone dioxygenase family of metal-binding enzymes, which are involved in methionine salvage. This enzyme may regulate mRNA processing in the nucleus, and may carry out different functions depending on its localization. Related pseudogenes have been defined on chromosomes 8 and 20. Alternative splicing results in multiple transcript variants encoding different isoforms.
ADIPOR1	This gene encodes a protein which acts as a receptor for adiponectin, a hormone secreted by adipocytes which regulates fatty acid catabolism and glucose levels. Binding of adiponectin to the encoded protein results in activation of an AMP-activated kinase signaling pathway which affects levels of fatty acid oxidation and insulin sensitivity. A pseudogene of this gene is located on chromosome 14. Multiple alternatively spliced transcript variants have been found for this gene.
ADIPOR2	The adiponectin receptors, ADIPOR1 (MIM 607945) and ADIPOR2, serve as receptors for globular and full-length adiponectin (MIM 605441) and mediate increased AMPK (see MIM 602739) and PPAR-alpha (PPARA; MIM 170998) ligand activities, as well as fatty acid oxidation and glucose uptake by adiponectin (Yamauchi et al., 2003
ADK	This gene an enzyme which catalyzes the transfer of the gamma-phosphate from ATP to adenosine, thereby serving as a regulator of concentrations of both extracellular adenosine and intracellular adenine nucleotides. Adenosine has widespread effects on the cardiovascular, nervous, respiratory, and immune systems and inhibitors of the enzyme could play an important pharmacological role in increasing intravascular adenosine concentrations and acting as anti-inflammatory agents. Multiple transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been found for this gene.
ADM	The protein encoded by this gene is a preprohormone which is cleaved to form two biologically active peptides, adrenomedullin and proadrenomedullin N-terminal 20 peptide. Adrenomedullin is a 52 aa peptide with several functions, including vasodilation, regulation of hormone secretion, promotion of angiogenesis, and antimicrobial activity. The antimicrobial activity is antibacterial, as the peptide has been shown to kill E. coli and S. aureus at low concentration.
ADM2	This gene encodes a member of the calcitonin gene-related peptide (CGRP)/calcitonin family of hormones that play a role in the regulation of cardiovascular homeostasis, prolactin release, anti-diuresis, anti-natriuresis, and regulation of food and water intake. The encoded protein is proteolytically processed to generate one or more biologically active peptides.
ADORA1	The protein encoded by this gene is an adenosine receptor that belongs to the G-protein coupled receptor 1 family. There are 3 types of adenosine receptors, each with a specific pattern of ligand binding and tissue distribution, and together they regulate a diverse set of physiologic functions. The type A1 receptors inhibit adenylyl cyclase, and play a role in the fertilization process. Animal studies also suggest a role for A1 receptors in kidney function and ethanol intoxication. Transcript variants with alternative splicing in the 5' UTR have been found for this gene.
ADORA2A	This gene encodes a member of the guanine nucleotide-binding protein (G protein)-coupled receptor (GPCR) superfamily, which is subdivided into classes and subtypes. The receptors are seven-pass transmembrane proteins that respond to extracellular cues and activate intracellular signal transduction pathways. This protein, an adenosine receptor of A2A subtype, uses adenosine as the preferred endogenous agonist and preferentially interacts with the G(s) and G(olf) family of G proteins to increase intracellular cAMP levels. It plays an important role in many biological functions, such as cardiac rhythm and circulation, cerebral and renal blood flow, immune function, pain regulation, and sleep. It has been implicated in pathophysiological conditions such as inflammatory diseases and neurodegenerative disorders. Alternative splicing results in multiple transcript variants. A read-through transcript composed of the upstream SPECC1L (sperm antigen with calponin homology and coiled-coil domains 1-like) and ADORA2A (adenosine A2a receptor) gene sequence has been identified, but it is thought to be non-coding.
ADORA2B	This gene encodes an adenosine receptor that is a member of the G protein-coupled receptor superfamily. This integral membrane protein stimulates adenylate cyclase activity in the presence of adenosine. This protein also interacts with netrin-1, which is involved in axon elongation. The gene is located near the Smith-Magenis syndrome region on chromosome 17.
ADORA3	This gene encodes a protein that belongs to the family of adenosine receptors, which are G-protein-coupled receptors that are involved in a variety of intracellular signaling pathways and physiological functions. The receptor encoded by this gene mediates a sustained cardioprotective function during cardiac ischemia, it is involved in the inhibition of neutrophil degranulation in neutrophil-mediated tissue injury, it has been implicated in both neuroprotective and neurodegenerative effects, and it may also mediate both cell proliferation and cell death. Alternative splicing results in multiple transcript variants. This gene shares its 5' terminal exon with some transcripts from overlapping GeneID:57413, which encodes an immunoglobulin domain-containing protein.
ADRA1A	Alpha-1-adrenergic receptors (alpha-1-ARs) are members of the G protein-coupled receptor superfamily. They activate mitogenic responses and regulate growth and proliferation of many cells. There are 3 alpha-1-AR subtypes: alpha-1A, -1B and -1D, all of which signal through the Gq/11 family of G-proteins and different subtypes show different patterns of activation. This gene encodes alpha-1A-adrenergic receptor. Alternative splicing of this gene generates four transcript variants, which encode four different isoforms with distinct C-termini but having similar ligand binding properties.
ADRA1B	Alpha-1-adrenergic receptors (alpha-1-ARs) are members of the G protein-coupled receptor superfamily. They activate mitogenic responses and regulate growth and proliferation of many cells. There are 3 alpha-1-AR subtypes: alpha-1A, -1B and -1D, all of which signal through the Gq/11 family of G-proteins and different subtypes show different patterns of activation. This gene encodes alpha-1B-adrenergic receptor, which induces neoplastic transformation when transfected into NIH 3T3 fibroblasts and other cell lines. Thus, this normal cellular gene is identified as a protooncogene. This gene comprises 2 exons and a single large intron of at least 20 kb that interrupts the coding region.
ADRA1D	Alpha-1-adrenergic receptors (alpha-1-ARs) are members of the G protein-coupled receptor superfamily. They activate mitogenic responses and regulate growth and proliferation of many cells. There are 3 alpha-1-AR subtypes: alpha-1A, -1B and -1D, all of which signal through the Gq/11 family of G-proteins and different subtypes show different patterns of activation. This gene encodes alpha-1D-adrenergic receptor. Similar to alpha-1B-adrenergic receptor gene, this gene comprises 2 exons and a single intron that interrupts the coding region.
ADRA2A	Alpha-2-adrenergic receptors are members of the G protein-coupled receptor superfamily. They include 3 highly homologous subtypes: alpha2A, alpha2B, and alpha2C. These receptors have a critical role in regulating neurotransmitter release from sympathetic nerves and from adrenergic neurons in the central nervous system. Studies in mouse revealed that both the alpha2A and alpha2C subtypes were required for normal presynaptic control of transmitter release from sympathetic nerves in the heart and from central noradrenergic neurons; the alpha2A subtype inhibited transmitter release at high stimulation frequencies, whereas the alpha2C subtype modulated neurotransmission at lower levels of nerve activity. This gene encodes alpha2A subtype and it contains no introns in either its coding or untranslated sequences.
ADRA2B	This intronless gene encodes a seven-pass transmembrane protein. This protein is a member of a subfamily of G protein-coupled receptors that regulate neurotransmitter release from sympathetic nerves and from adrenergic neurons in the central nervous system.
ADRA2C	Alpha-2-adrenergic receptors are members of the G protein-coupled receptor superfamily. They include 3 highly homologous subtypes: alpha2A, alpha2B, and alpha2C. These receptors have a critical role in regulating neurotransmitter release from sympathetic nerves and from adrenergic neurons in the central nervous system. The mouse studies revealed that both the alpha2A and alpha2C subtypes were required for normal presynaptic control of transmitter release from sympathetic nerves in the heart and from central noradrenergic neurons. The alpha2A subtype inhibited transmitter release at high stimulation frequencies, whereas the alpha2C subtype modulated neurotransmission at lower levels of nerve activity. This gene encodes the alpha2C subtype, which contains no introns in either its coding or untranslated sequences.
ADRB1	The adrenergic receptors (subtypes alpha 1, alpha 2, beta 1, and beta 2) are a prototypic family of guanine nucleotide binding regulatory protein-coupled receptors that mediate the physiological effects of the hormone epinephrine and the neurotransmitter norepinephrine. Specific polymorphisms in this gene have been shown to affect the resting heart rate and can be involved in heart failure.
ADRB2	This gene encodes beta-2-adrenergic receptor which is a member of the G protein-coupled receptor superfamily. This receptor is directly associated with one of its ultimate effectors, the class C L-type calcium channel Ca(V)1.2. This receptor-channel complex also contains a G protein, an adenylyl cyclase, cAMP-dependent kinase, and the counterbalancing phosphatase, PP2A. The assembly of the signaling complex provides a mechanism that ensures specific and rapid signaling by this G protein-coupled receptor. This gene is intronless. Different polymorphic forms, point mutations, and/or downregulation of this gene are associated with nocturnal asthma, obesity and type 2 diabetes.
ADRB3	The protein encoded by this gene belongs to the family of beta adrenergic receptors, which mediate catecholamine-induced activation of adenylate cyclase through the action of G proteins. This receptor is located mainly in the adipose tissue and is involved in the regulation of lipolysis and thermogenesis.
ADSS	This gene encodes the enzyme adenylosuccinate synthetase which catalyzes the first committed step in the conversion of inosine monophosphate to adenosine monophosphate. A pseudogene of this gene is found on chromosome 17.
AFP	This gene encodes alpha-fetoprotein, a major plasma protein produced by the yolk sac and the liver during fetal life. Alpha-fetoprotein expression in adults is often associated with hepatoma or teratoma. However, hereditary persistance of alpha-fetoprotein may also be found in individuals with no obvious pathology. The protein is thought to be the fetal counterpart of serum albumin, and the alpha-fetoprotein and albumin genes are present in tandem in the same transcriptional orientation on chromosome 4. Alpha-fetoprotein is found in monomeric as well as dimeric and trimeric forms, and binds copper, nickel, fatty acids and bilirubin. The level of alpha-fetoprotein in amniotic fluid is used to measure renal loss of protein to screen for spina bifida and anencephaly.
AGBL2	Metallocarboxypeptidase that mediates deglutamylation of target proteins. Catalyzes the deglutamylation of polyglutamate side chains generated by post-translational polyglutamylation in proteins such as tubulins. Also removes gene-encoded polyglutamates from the carboxy-terminus of target proteins such as MYLK. Does not show detyrosinase or deglycylase activities from the carboxy-terminus of tubulin.
AGER	The advanced glycosylation end product (AGE) receptor encoded by this gene is a member of the immunoglobulin superfamily of cell surface receptors. It is a multiligand receptor, and besides AGE, interacts with other molecules implicated in homeostasis, development, and inflammation, and certain diseases, such as diabetes and Alzheimer's disease. Many alternatively spliced transcript variants encoding different isoforms, as well as non-protein-coding variants, have been described for this gene (PMID:18089847).
AGK	The protein encoded by this gene is a mitochondrial membrane protein involved in lipid and glycerolipid metabolism. The encoded protein is a lipid kinase that catalyzes the formation of phosphatidic and lysophosphatidic acids. Defects in this gene have been associated with mitochondrial DNA depletion syndrome 10.
AGL	This gene encodes the glycogen debrancher enzyme which is involved in glycogen degradation. This enzyme has two independent catalytic activities which occur at different sites on the protein: a 4-alpha-glucotransferase activity and a amylo-1,6-glucosidase activity. Mutations in this gene are associated with glycogen storage disease although a wide range of enzymatic and clinical variability occurs which may be due to tissue-specific alternative splicing. Alternatively spliced transcripts encoding different isoforms have been described.
AGPAT1	This gene encodes an enzyme that converts lysophosphatidic acid (LPA) into phosphatidic acid (PA). LPA and PA are two phospholipids involved in signal transduction and in lipid biosynthesis in cells. This enzyme localizes to the endoplasmic reticulum. This gene is located in the class III region of the human major histocompatibility complex. Alternative splicing results in two transcript variants encoding the same protein.
AGPAT2	This gene encodes a member of the 1-acylglycerol-3-phosphate O-acyltransferase family. The protein is located within the endoplasmic reticulum membrane and converts lysophosphatidic acid to phosphatidic acid, the second step in de novo phospholipid biosynthesis. Mutations in this gene have been associated with congenital generalized lipodystrophy (CGL), or Berardinelli-Seip syndrome, a disease characterized by a near absence of adipose tissue and severe insulin resistance. Alternate transcriptional splice variants, encoding different isoforms, have been characterized.
AGT	The protein encoded by this gene, pre-angiotensinogen or angiotensinogen precursor, is expressed in the liver and is cleaved by the enzyme renin in response to lowered blood pressure. The resulting product, angiotensin I, is then cleaved by angiotensin converting enzyme (ACE) to generate the physiologically active enzyme angiotensin II. The protein is involved in maintaining blood pressure and in the pathogenesis of essential hypertension and preeclampsia. Mutations in this gene are associated with susceptibility to essential hypertension, and can cause renal tubular dysgenesis, a severe disorder of renal tubular development. Defects in this gene have also been associated with non-familial structural atrial fibrillation, and inflammatory bowel disease.
AGTR1	Angiotensin II is a potent vasopressor hormone and a primary regulator of aldosterone secretion. It is an important effector controlling blood pressure and volume in the cardiovascular system. It acts through at least two types of receptors. This gene encodes the type 1 receptor which is thought to mediate the major cardiovascular effects of angiotensin II. This gene may play a role in the generation of reperfusion arrhythmias following restoration of blood flow to ischemic or infarcted myocardium. It was previously thought that a related gene, denoted as AGTR1B, existed; however, it is now believed that there is only one type 1 receptor gene in humans. Multiple alternatively spliced transcript variants have been reported for this gene.
AGTR2	The protein encoded by this gene belongs to the G-protein coupled receptor 1 family, and functions as a receptor for angiotensin II. It is an intergral membrane protein that is highly expressed in fetus, but scantily in adult tissues, except brain, adrenal medulla, and atretic ovary. This receptor has been shown to mediate programmed cell death and this apoptotic function may play an important role in developmental biology and pathophysiology. Mutations in this gene are been associated with X-linked cognitive disability.
AHCY	S-adenosylhomocysteine hydrolase belongs to the adenosylhomocysteinase family. It catalyzes the reversible hydrolysis of S-adenosylhomocysteine (AdoHcy) to adenosine (Ado) and L-homocysteine (Hcy). Thus, it regulates the intracellular S-adenosylhomocysteine (SAH) concentration thought to be important for transmethylation reactions. Deficiency in this protein is one of the different causes of hypermethioninemia. Alternatively spliced transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been found for this gene.
AHCYL1	The protein encoded by this gene interacts with inositol 1,4,5-trisphosphate receptor, type 1 and may be involved in the conversion of S-adenosyl-L-homocysteine to L-homocysteine and adenosine. Several transcript variants encoding two different isoforms have been found for this gene.
AHR	The protein encoded by this gene is a ligand-activated helix-loop-helix transcription factor involved in the regulation of biological responses to planar aromatic hydrocarbons. This receptor has been shown to regulate xenobiotic-metabolizing enzymes such as cytochrome P450. Before ligand binding, the encoded protein is sequestered in the cytoplasm; upon ligand binding, this protein moves to the nucleus and stimulates transcription of target genes.
AHSA1	Acts as a co-chaperone of HSP90AA1 .
AK1	This gene encodes an adenylate kinase enzyme involved in energy metabolism and homeostasis of cellular adenine nucleotide ratios in different intracellular compartments. This gene is highly expressed in skeletal muscle, brain and erythrocytes. Certain mutations in this gene resulting in a functionally inadequate enzyme are associated with a rare genetic disorder causing nonspherocytic hemolytic anemia. Alternative splicing of this gene results in multiple transcript variants encoding different isoforms.
AK2	Adenylate kinases are involved in regulating the adenine nucleotide composition within a cell by catalyzing the reversible transfer of phosphate groups among adenine nucleotides. Three isozymes of adenylate kinase, namely 1, 2, and 3, have been identified in vertebrates; this gene encodes isozyme 2. Expression of these isozymes is tissue-specific and developmentally regulated. Isozyme 2 is localized in the mitochondrial intermembrane space and may play a role in apoptosis. Mutations in this gene are the cause of reticular dysgenesis. Alternate splicing results in multiple transcript variants. Pseudogenes of this gene are found on chromosomes 1 and 2.
AK4	This gene encodes a member of the adenylate kinase family of enzymes. The encoded protein is localized to the mitochondrial matrix. Adenylate kinases regulate the adenine and guanine nucleotide compositions within a cell by catalyzing the reversible transfer of phosphate group among these nucleotides. Five isozymes of adenylate kinase have been identified in vertebrates. Expression of these isozymes is tissue-specific and developmentally regulated. A pseudogene for this gene has been located on chromosome 17. Three transcript variants encoding the same protein have been identified for this gene. Sequence alignment suggests that the gene defined by NM_013410, NM_203464, and NM_001005353 is located on chromosome 1.
AKR1A1	This gene encodes a member of the aldo/keto reductase superfamily, which consists of more than 40 known enzymes and proteins. This member, also known as aldehyde reductase, is involved in the reduction of biogenic and xenobiotic aldehydes and is present in virtually every tissue. Multiple alternatively spliced transcript variants of this gene exist, all encoding the same protein.
AKR1B1	This gene encodes a member of the aldo/keto reductase superfamily, which consists of more than 40 known enzymes and proteins. This member catalyzes the reduction of a number of aldehydes, including the aldehyde form of glucose, and is thereby implicated in the development of diabetic complications by catalyzing the reduction of glucose to sorbitol. Multiple pseudogenes have been identified for this gene. The nomenclature system used by the HUGO Gene Nomenclature Committee to define human aldo-keto reductase family members is known to differ from that used by the Mouse Genome Informatics database.
AKR1B10	This gene encodes a member of the aldo/keto reductase superfamily, which consists of more than 40 known enzymes and proteins. This member can efficiently reduce aliphatic and aromatic aldehydes, and it is less active on hexoses. It is highly expressed in adrenal gland, small intestine, and colon, and may play an important role in liver carcinogenesis.
AKR1C1	This gene encodes a member of the aldo/keto reductase superfamily, which consists of more than 40 known enzymes and proteins. These enzymes catalyze the conversion of aldehydes and ketones to their corresponding alcohols by utilizing NADH and/or NADPH as cofactors. The enzymes display overlapping but distinct substrate specificity. This enzyme catalyzes the reaction of progesterone to the inactive form 20-alpha-hydroxy-progesterone. This gene shares high sequence identity with three other gene members and is clustered with those three genes at chromosome 10p15-p14.
AKR1C2	This gene encodes a member of the aldo/keto reductase superfamily, which consists of more than 40 known enzymes and proteins. These enzymes catalyze the conversion of aldehydes and ketones to their corresponding alcohols using NADH and/or NADPH as cofactors. The enzymes display overlapping but distinct substrate specificity. This enzyme binds bile acid with high affinity, and shows minimal 3-alpha-hydroxysteroid dehydrogenase activity. This gene shares high sequence identity with three other gene members and is clustered with those three genes at chromosome 10p15-p14. Three transcript variants encoding two different isoforms have been found for this gene.
AKR1C3	This gene encodes a member of the aldo/keto reductase superfamily, which consists of more than 40 known enzymes and proteins. These enzymes catalyze the conversion of aldehydes and ketones to their corresponding alcohols by utilizing NADH and/or NADPH as cofactors. The enzymes display overlapping but distinct substrate specificity. This enzyme catalyzes the reduction of prostaglandin (PG) D2, PGH2 and phenanthrenequinone (PQ), and the oxidation of 9alpha,11beta-PGF2 to PGD2. It may play an important role in the pathogenesis of allergic diseases such as asthma, and may also have a role in controlling cell growth and/or differentiation. This gene shares high sequence identity with three other gene members and is clustered with those three genes at chromosome 10p15-p14. Three transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been found for this gene.
AKR1C4	This gene encodes a member of the aldo/keto reductase superfamily, which consists of more than 40 known enzymes and proteins. These enzymes catalyze the conversion of aldehydes and ketones to their corresponding alcohols by utilizing NADH and/or NADPH as cofactors. The enzymes display overlapping but distinct substrate specificity. This enzyme catalyzes the bioreduction of chlordecone, a toxic organochlorine pesticide, to chlordecone alcohol in liver. This gene shares high sequence identity with three other gene members and is clustered with those three genes at chromosome 10p15-p14.
AKT1	The serine-threonine protein kinase encoded by the AKT1 gene is catalytically inactive in serum-starved primary and immortalized fibroblasts. AKT1 and the related AKT2 are activated by platelet-derived growth factor. The activation is rapid and specific, and it is abrogated by mutations in the pleckstrin homology domain of AKT1. It was shown that the activation occurs through phosphatidylinositol 3-kinase. In the developing nervous system AKT is a critical mediator of growth factor-induced neuronal survival. Survival factors can suppress apoptosis in a transcription-independent manner by activating the serine/threonine kinase AKT1, which then phosphorylates and inactivates components of the apoptotic machinery. Mutations in this gene have been associated with the Proteus syndrome. Multiple alternatively spliced transcript variants have been found for this gene.
AKT1S1	AKT1S1 is a proline-rich substrate of AKT (MIM 164730) that binds 14-3-3 protein (see YWHAH, MIM 113508) when phosphorylated (Kovacina et al., 2003
AKT2	This gene is a putative oncogene encoding a protein belonging to a subfamily of serine/threonine kinases containing SH2-like (Src homology 2-like) domains. The gene was shown to be amplified and overexpressed in 2 of 8 ovarian carcinoma cell lines and 2 of 15 primary ovarian tumors. Overexpression contributes to the malignant phenotype of a subset of human ductal pancreatic cancers. The encoded protein is a general protein kinase capable of phophorylating several known proteins.
AKT3	The protein encoded by this gene is a member of the AKT, also called PKB,  serine/threonine protein kinase family. AKT kinases are known to be regulators of cell signaling in response to insulin and growth factors. They are involved in a wide variety of biological processes including cell proliferation, differentiation, apoptosis, tumorigenesis, as well as glycogen synthesis and glucose uptake. This kinase has been shown to be stimulated by platelet-derived growth factor (PDGF), insulin, and insulin-like growth factor 1 (IGF1). Alternatively splice transcript variants encoding distinct isoforms have been described.
ALAD	The ALAD enzyme is composed of 8 identical subunits and catalyzes the condensation of 2 molecules of delta-aminolevulinate to form porphobilinogen (a precursor of heme, cytochromes and other hemoproteins). ALAD catalyzes the second step in the porphyrin and heme biosynthetic pathway; zinc is essential for enzymatic activity. ALAD enzymatic activity is inhibited by lead and a defect in the ALAD structural gene can cause increased sensitivity to lead poisoning and acute hepatic porphyria. Alternative splicing of this gene results in multiple transcript variants encoding different isoforms.
ALB	This gene encodes the most abundant protein in human blood. This protein functions in the regulation of blood plasma colloid osmotic pressure and acts as a carrier protein for a wide range of endogenous molecules including hormones, fatty acids, and metabolites, as well as exogenous drugs. Additionally, this protein exhibits an esterase-like activity with broad substrate specificity. The encoded preproprotein is proteolytically processed to generate the mature protein. A peptide derived from this protein, EPI-X4, is an endogenous inhibitor of the CXCR4 chemokine receptor.
ALDH1A1	The protein encoded by this gene belongs to the aldehyde dehydrogenase family. Aldehyde dehydrogenase is the next enzyme after alcohol dehydrogenase in the major pathway of alcohol metabolism. There are two major aldehyde dehydrogenase isozymes in the liver, cytosolic and mitochondrial, which are encoded by distinct genes, and can be distinguished by their electrophoretic mobility, kinetic properties, and subcellular localization. This gene encodes the cytosolic isozyme. Studies in mice show that through its role in retinol metabolism, this gene may also be involved in the regulation of the metabolic responses to high-fat diet.
ALDH1A2	This protein belongs to the aldehyde dehydrogenase family of proteins. The product of this gene is an enzyme that catalyzes the synthesis of retinoic acid (RA) from retinaldehyde. Retinoic acid, the active derivative of vitamin A (retinol), is a hormonal signaling molecule that functions in developing and adult tissues. The studies of a similar mouse gene suggest that this enzyme and the cytochrome CYP26A1, concurrently establish local embryonic retinoic acid levels which facilitate posterior organ development and prevent spina bifida. Four transcript variants encoding distinct isoforms have been identified for this gene.
ALDH1A3	This gene encodes an aldehyde dehydrogenase enzyme that uses retinal as a substrate. Mutations in this gene have been associated with microphthalmia, isolated 8, and expression changes have also been detected in tumor cells. Alternative splicing results in multiple transcript variants.
ALDH1B1	This protein belongs to the aldehyde dehydrogenases family of proteins. Aldehyde dehydrogenase is the second enzyme of the major oxidative pathway of alcohol metabolism. This gene does not contain introns in the coding sequence. The variation of this locus may affect the development of alcohol-related problems.
ALDH2	This protein belongs to the aldehyde dehydrogenase family of proteins. Aldehyde dehydrogenase is the second enzyme of the major oxidative pathway of alcohol metabolism. Two major liver isoforms of aldehyde dehydrogenase, cytosolic and mitochondrial, can be distinguished by their electrophoretic mobilities, kinetic properties, and subcellular localizations. Most Caucasians have two major isozymes, while approximately 50% of East Asians have the cytosolic isozyme but not the mitochondrial isozyme. A remarkably higher frequency of acute alcohol intoxication among East Asians than among Caucasians could be related to the absence of a catalytically active form of the mitochondrial isozyme. The increased exposure to acetaldehyde in individuals with the catalytically inactive form may also confer greater susceptibility to many types of cancer. This gene encodes a mitochondrial isoform, which has a low Km for acetaldehydes, and is localized in mitochondrial matrix. Alternative splicing results in multiple transcript variants encoding distinct isoforms.
ALDH3A1	Aldehyde dehydrogenases oxidize various aldehydes to the corresponding acids. They are involved in the detoxification of alcohol-derived acetaldehyde and in the metabolism of corticosteroids, biogenic amines, neurotransmitters, and lipid peroxidation. The enzyme encoded by this gene forms a cytoplasmic homodimer that preferentially oxidizes aromatic and medium-chain (6 carbons or more) saturated and unsaturated aldehyde substrates. It is thought to promote resistance to UV and 4-hydroxy-2-nonenal-induced oxidative damage in the cornea. The gene is located within the Smith-Magenis syndrome region on chromosome 17. Multiple alternatively spliced variants, encoding the same protein, have been identified.
ALDH4A1	This protein belongs to the aldehyde dehydrogenase family of proteins. This enzyme is a mitochondrial matrix NAD-dependent dehydrogenase which catalyzes the second step of the proline degradation pathway, converting pyrroline-5-carboxylate to glutamate. Deficiency of this enzyme is associated with type II hyperprolinemia, an autosomal recessive disorder characterized by accumulation of delta-1-pyrroline-5-carboxylate (P5C) and proline. Alternatively spliced transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been identified for this gene.
ALDH5A1	This protein belongs to the aldehyde dehydrogenase family of proteins. This gene encodes a mitochondrial NAD(+)-dependent succinic semialdehyde dehydrogenase. A deficiency of this enzyme, known as 4-hydroxybutyricaciduria, is a rare inborn error in the metabolism of the neurotransmitter 4-aminobutyric acid (GABA). In response to the defect, physiologic fluids from patients accumulate GHB, a compound with numerous neuromodulatory properties. Two transcript variants encoding distinct isoforms have been identified for this gene.
ALDOA	This gene encodes a member of the class I fructose-bisphosphate aldolase protein family. The encoded protein is a glycolytic enzyme that catalyzes the reversible conversion of fructose-1,6-bisphosphate to glyceraldehyde 3-phosphate and dihydroxyacetone phosphate. Three aldolase isozymes (A, B, and C), encoded by three different genes, are differentially expressed during development. Mutations in this gene have been associated with Glycogen Storage Disease XII, an autosomal recessive disorder associated with hemolytic anemia. Disruption of this gene also plays a role in the progression of multiple types of cancers. Related pseudogenes have been identified on chromosomes 3 and 10.
ALK	This gene encodes a receptor tyrosine kinase, which belongs to the insulin receptor superfamily. This protein comprises an extracellular domain, an hydrophobic stretch corresponding to a single pass transmembrane region, and an intracellular kinase domain. It plays an important role in the development of the brain and exerts its effects on specific neurons in the nervous system. This gene has been found to be rearranged, mutated, or amplified in a series of tumours including anaplastic large cell lymphomas, neuroblastoma, and non-small cell lung cancer. The chromosomal rearrangements are the most common genetic alterations in this gene, which result in creation of multiple fusion genes in tumourigenesis, including ALK (chromosome 2)/EML4 (chromosome 2), ALK/RANBP2 (chromosome 2), ALK/ATIC (chromosome 2), ALK/TFG (chromosome 3), ALK/NPM1 (chromosome 5), ALK/SQSTM1 (chromosome 5), ALK/KIF5B (chromosome 10), ALK/CLTC (chromosome 17), ALK/TPM4 (chromosome 19), and ALK/MSN (chromosome X).
ALKBH3	The Escherichia coli AlkB protein protects against the cytotoxicity of methylating agents by repair of the specific DNA lesions generated in single-stranded DNA. ALKBH2 (MIM 610602) and ALKBH3 are E. coli AlkB homologs that catalyze the removal of 1-methyladenine and 3-methylcytosine (Duncan et al., 2002
ALKBH5	Dioxygenase that demethylates RNA by oxidative demethylation: specifically demethylates N(6)-methyladenosine (m6A) RNA, the most prevalent internal modification of messenger RNA (mRNA) in higher eukaryotes .
ALOX12	This gene encodes a member of the lipoxygenase family of proteins. The encoded enzyme acts on different polyunsaturated fatty acid substrates to generate bioactive lipid mediators including eicosanoids and lipoxins. The encoded enzyme and its reaction products have been shown to regulate platelet function. Elevated expression of this gene has been observed in pancreatic islets derived from human diabetes patients. Allelic variants in this gene may be associated with susceptibility to toxoplasmosis. Multiple pseudogenes of this gene have been identified in the human genome.
ALOX15	This gene encodes a member of the lipoxygenase family of proteins. The encoded enzyme acts on various polyunsaturated fatty acid substrates to generate various bioactive lipid mediators such as eicosanoids, hepoxilins, lipoxins, and other molecules. The encoded enzyme and its reaction products have been shown to regulate inflammation and immunity. Multiple pseudogenes of this gene have been identified in the human genome.
ALOX15B	This gene encodes a member of the lipoxygenase family of structurally related nonheme iron dioxygenases involved in the production of fatty acid hydroperoxides. The encoded protein converts arachidonic acid exclusively to 15S-hydroperoxyeicosatetraenoic acid, while metabolizing linoleic acid less effectively. This gene is located in a cluster of related genes and a pseudogene that spans approximately 100 kilobases on the short arm of chromosome 17. Alternatively spliced transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been described.
ALOX5	This gene encodes a member of the lipoxygenase gene family and plays a dual role in the synthesis of leukotrienes from arachidonic acid. The encoded protein, which is expressed specifically in bone marrow-derived cells, catalyzes the conversion of arachidonic acid to 5(S)-hydroperoxy-6-trans-8,11,14-cis-eicosatetraenoic acid, and further to the allylic epoxide 5(S)-trans-7,9-trans-11,14-cis-eicosatetrenoic acid (leukotriene A4). Leukotrienes are important mediators of a number of inflammatory and allergic conditions. Mutations in the promoter region of this gene lead to a diminished response to antileukotriene drugs used in the treatment of asthma and may also be associated with atherosclerosis and several cancers. Alternatively spliced transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been found for this gene.
ALOX5AP	This gene encodes a protein which, with 5-lipoxygenase, is required for leukotriene synthesis. Leukotrienes are arachidonic acid metabolites which have been implicated in various types of inflammatory responses, including asthma, arthritis and psoriasis. This protein localizes to the plasma membrane. Inhibitors of its function impede translocation of 5-lipoxygenase from the cytoplasm to the cell membrane and inhibit 5-lipoxygenase activation. Alternatively spliced transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been identified for this gene.
ALPI	There are at least four distinct but related alkaline phosphatases: intestinal, placental, placental-like, and liver/bone/kidney (tissue non-specific). The intestinal alkaline phosphatase gene encodes a digestive brush-border enzyme. This enzyme is a component of the gut mucosal defense system and is thought to function in the detoxification of lipopolysaccharide, and in the prevention of bacterial translocation in the gut.
ALPL	This gene encodes a member of the alkaline phosphatase family of proteins. There are at least four distinct but related alkaline phosphatases: intestinal, placental, placental-like, and liver/bone/kidney (tissue non-specific). The first three are located together on chromosome 2, while the tissue non-specific form is located on chromosome 1. The product of this gene is a membrane bound glycosylated enzyme that is not expressed in any particular tissue and is, therefore, referred to as the tissue-nonspecific form of the enzyme. Alternative splicing results in multiple transcript variants, at least one of which encodes a preproprotein that is proteolytically processed to generate the mature enzyme. This enzyme may play a role in bone mineralization. Mutations in this gene have been linked to hypophosphatasia, a disorder that is characterized by hypercalcemia and skeletal defects.
ALPP	The protein encoded by this gene is an alkaline phosphatase, a metalloenzyme that catalyzes the hydrolysis of phosphoric acid monoesters. It belongs to a multigene family composed of four alkaline phosphatase isoenzymes. The enzyme functions as a homodimer and has a catalytic site containing one magnesium and two zinc ions, which are required for its enzymatic function. The protein is primarily expressed in placental and endometrial tissue; however, strong ectopic expression has been detected in ovarian adenocarcinoma, serous cystadenocarcinoma, and other ovarian cancer cells.
AMD1	This gene encodes an important intermediate enzyme in polyamine biosynthesis. The polyamines spermine, spermidine, and putrescine are low-molecular-weight aliphatic amines essential for cellular proliferation and tumor promotion. Multiple alternatively spliced transcript variants have been identified. Pseudogenes of this gene are found on chromosomes 5, 6, 10, X and Y.
AMDHD2	Hydrolyzes the N-glycolyl group from N-glycolylglucosamine 6-phosphate (GlcNGc-6-P) in the N-glycolylneuraminic acid (Neu5Gc) degradation pathway. Although human is not able to catalyze formation of Neu5Gc due to the inactive CMAHP enzyme, Neu5Gc is present in food and must be degraded.
AMOT	This gene belongs to the motin family of angiostatin binding proteins characterized by conserved coiled-coil domains and C-terminal PDZ binding motifs. The encoded protein is expressed predominantly in endothelial cells of capillaries as well as larger vessels of the placenta where it may mediate the inhibitory effect of angiostatin on tube formation and the migration of endothelial cells toward growth factors during the formation of new blood vessels. Alternative splicing results in multiple transcript variants encoding different isoforms.
AMPD1	Adenosine monophosphate deaminase 1 catalyzes the deamination of AMP to IMP in skeletal muscle and plays an important role in the purine nucleotide cycle. Two other genes have been identified, AMPD2 and AMPD3, for the liver- and erythocyte-specific isoforms, respectively. Deficiency of the muscle-specific enzyme is apparently a common cause of exercise-induced myopathy and probably the most common cause of metabolic myopathy in the human. Alternatively spliced transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been identified in this gene.
AMPD2	The protein encoded by this gene is important in purine metabolism by converting AMP to IMP. The encoded protein, which acts as a homotetramer, is one of three AMP deaminases found in mammals. Several transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been found for this gene.
AMPD3	This gene encodes a member of the AMP deaminase gene family. The encoded protein is a highly regulated enzyme that catalyzes the hydrolytic deamination of adenosine monophosphate to inosine monophosphate, a branch point in the adenylate catabolic pathway. This gene encodes the erythrocyte (E) isoforms, whereas other family members encode isoforms that predominate in muscle (M) and liver (L) cells. Mutations in this gene lead to the clinically asymptomatic, autosomal recessive condition erythrocyte AMP deaminase deficiency. Alternatively spliced transcript variants encoding different isoforms of this gene have been described.
AMY1A	Amylases are secreted proteins that hydrolyze 1,4-alpha-glucoside bonds in oligosaccharides and polysaccharides, and thus catalyze the first step in digestion of dietary starch and glycogen. The human genome has a cluster of several amylase genes that are expressed at high levels in either salivary gland or pancreas. This gene encodes an amylase isoenzyme produced by the salivary gland. Alternative splicing results in multiple transcript variants encoding the same protein.
AMY2A	This gene encodes a member of the alpha-amylase family of proteins. Amylases are secreted proteins that hydrolyze 1,4-alpha-glucoside bonds in oligosaccharides and polysaccharides, catalyzing the first step in digestion of dietary starch and glycogen. This gene and several family members are present in a gene cluster on chromosome 1. This gene encodes an amylase isoenzyme produced by the pancreas.
ANG	The protein encoded by this gene is an exceedingly potent mediator of new blood vessel formation. It hydrolyzes cellular tRNAs resulting in decreased protein synthesis and is similar to pancreatic ribonuclease. In addition, the mature peptide has antimicrobial activity against some bacteria and fungi, including S. pneumoniae and C. albicans. Alternative splicing results in two transcript variants encoding the same protein. This gene and the gene that encodes ribonuclease, RNase A family, 4 share promoters and 5' exons. Each gene splices to a unique downstream exon that contains its complete coding region.
ANGPT1	This gene encodes a secreted glycoprotein that belongs to the angiopoietin family. Members of this family play important roles in vascular development and angiogenesis. All angiopoietins bind with similar affinity to an endothelial cell-specific tyrosine-protein kinase receptor. The protein encoded by this gene is a secreted glycoprotein that activates the receptor by inducing its tyrosine phosphorylation. It plays a critical role in mediating reciprocal interactions between the endothelium and surrounding matrix and mesenchyme and inhibits endothelial permeability. The protein also contributes to blood vessel maturation and stability, and may be involved in early development of the heart. Alternative splicing results in multiple transcript variants encoding distinct isoforms.
ANGPT2	The protein encoded by this gene is an antagonist of angiopoietin 1 (ANGPT1) and endothelial TEK tyrosine kinase (TIE-2, TEK). The encoded protein disrupts the vascular remodeling ability of ANGPT1 and may induce endothelial cell apoptosis. Three transcript variants encoding three different isoforms have been found for this gene.
ANGPTL3	This gene encodes a member of a family of secreted proteins that function in angiogenesis. The encoded protein, which is expressed predominantly in the liver, is further processed into an N-terminal coiled-coil domain-containing chain and a C-terminal fibrinogen chain. The N-terminal chain is important for lipid metabolism, while the C-terminal chain may be involved in angiogenesis. Mutations in this gene cause familial hypobetalipoproteinemia type 2.
ANO1	Calcium-activated chloride channel (CaCC) which plays a role in transepithelial anion transport and smooth muscle contraction. Required for the normal functioning of the interstitial cells of Cajal (ICCs) which generate electrical pacemaker activity in gastrointestinal smooth muscles. Acts as a major contributor to basal and stimulated chloride conductance in airway epithelial cells and plays an important role in tracheal cartilage development.
ANPEP	Aminopeptidase N is located in the small-intestinal and renal microvillar membrane, and also in other plasma membranes. In the small intestine aminopeptidase N plays a role in the final digestion of peptides generated from hydrolysis of proteins by gastric and pancreatic proteases. Its function in proximal tubular epithelial cells and other cell types is less clear. The large extracellular carboxyterminal domain contains a pentapeptide consensus sequence characteristic of members of the zinc-binding metalloproteinase superfamily. Sequence comparisons with known enzymes of this class showed that CD13 and aminopeptidase N are identical. The latter enzyme was thought to be involved in the metabolism of regulatory peptides by diverse cell types, including small intestinal and renal tubular epithelial cells, macrophages, granulocytes, and synaptic membranes from the CNS. Human aminopeptidase N is a receptor for one strain of human coronavirus that is an important cause of upper respiratory tract infections. Defects in this gene appear to be a cause of various types of leukemia or lymphoma.
ANXA2	This gene encodes a member of the annexin family. Members of this calcium-dependent phospholipid-binding protein family play a role in the regulation of cellular growth and in signal transduction pathways. This protein functions as an autocrine factor which heightens osteoclast formation and bone resorption. This gene has three pseudogenes located on chromosomes 4, 9 and 10, respectively. Multiple alternatively spliced transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been found for this gene.
AOC1	This gene encodes a metal-binding membrane glycoprotein that oxidatively deaminates putrescine, histamine, and related compounds. The encoded protein is inhibited by amiloride, a diuretic that acts by closing epithelial sodium ion channels. Alternatively spliced transcript variants encoding multiple isoforms have been observed for this gene.
AOC2	Copper amine oxidases catalyze the oxidative conversion of amines to aldehydes and ammonia in the presence of copper and quinone cofactor. This gene shows high sequence similarity to copper amine oxidases from various species ranging from bacteria to mammals. The protein contains several conserved motifs including the active site of amine oxidases and the histidine residues that likely bind copper. It may be a critical modulator of signal transmission in retina, possibly by degrading the biogenic amines dopamine, histamine, and putrescine. This gene may be a candidate gene for hereditary ocular diseases. Alternate splicing results in multiple transcript variants.
AOC3	This gene encodes a member of the semicarbazide-sensitive amine oxidase family. Copper amine oxidases catalyze the oxidative conversion of amines to aldehydes in the presence of copper and quinone cofactor. The encoded protein is localized to the cell surface, has adhesive properties as well as monoamine oxidase activity, and may be involved in leukocyte trafficking. Alterations in levels of the encoded protein may be associated with many diseases, including diabetes mellitus. A pseudogene of this gene has been described and is located approximately 9-kb downstream on the same chromosome. Alternative splicing results in multiple transcript variants.
AOX1	Aldehyde oxidase produces hydrogen peroxide and, under certain conditions, can catalyze the formation of superoxide. Aldehyde oxidase is a candidate gene for amyotrophic lateral sclerosis.
APAF1	This gene encodes a cytoplasmic protein that initiates apoptosis. This protein contains several copies of the WD-40 domain, a caspase recruitment domain (CARD), and an ATPase domain (NB-ARC). Upon binding cytochrome c and dATP, this protein forms an oligomeric apoptosome. The apoptosome binds and cleaves caspase 9 preproprotein, releasing its mature, activated form. Activated caspase 9 stimulates the subsequent caspase cascade that commits the cell to apoptosis. Alternative splicing results in several transcript variants encoding different isoforms.
APC	This gene encodes a tumor suppressor protein that acts as an antagonist of the Wnt signaling pathway. It is also involved in other processes including cell migration and adhesion, transcriptional activation, and apoptosis. Defects in this gene cause familial adenomatous polyposis (FAP), an autosomal dominant pre-malignant disease that usually progresses to malignancy. Disease-associated mutations tend to be clustered in a small region designated the mutation cluster region (MCR) and result in a truncated protein product.
APCS	The protein encoded by this gene is a glycoprotein, belonging to the pentraxin family of proteins, which has a characteristic pentameric organization. These family members have considerable sequence homology which is thought to be the result of gene duplication. The binding of the encoded protein to proteins in the pathological amyloid cross-beta fold suggests its possible role as a chaperone. This protein is also thought to control the degradation of chromatin. It has been demonstrated that this protein binds to apoptotic cells at an early stage, which raises the possibility that it is involved in dealing with apoptotic cells in vivo.
APEH	 This gene encodes the enzyme acylpeptide hydrolase, which catalyzes the hydrolysis of the terminal acetylated amino acid preferentially from small acetylated peptides. The acetyl amino acid formed by this hydrolase is further processed to acetate and a free amino acid by an aminoacylase. This gene is located within the same region of chromosome 3 (3p21) as the aminoacylase gene, and deletions at this locus are also associated with a decrease in aminoacylase activity. The acylpeptide hydrolase is a homotetrameric protein of 300 kDa with each subunit consisting of 732 amino acid residues. It can play an important role in destroying oxidatively damaged proteins in living cells. Deletions of this gene locus are found in various types of carcinomas, including small cell lung carcinoma and renal cell carcinoma.
APEX1	Apurinic/apyrimidinic (AP) sites occur frequently in DNA molecules by spontaneous hydrolysis, by DNA damaging agents or by DNA glycosylases that remove specific abnormal bases. AP sites are pre-mutagenic lesions that can prevent normal DNA replication so the cell contains systems to identify and repair such sites. Class II AP endonucleases cleave the phosphodiester backbone 5' to the AP site. This gene encodes the major AP endonuclease in human cells. Splice variants have been found for this gene; all encode the same protein.
APLN	This gene encodes a peptide that functions as an endogenous ligand for the G-protein coupled apelin receptor. The encoded preproprotein is proteolytically processed into biologically active C-terminal peptide fragments. These peptide fragments activate different tissue specific signaling pathways that regulate diverse biological functions including fluid homeostasis, cardiovascular function and insulin secretion. This protein also functions as a coreceptor for the human immunodeficiency virus 1.
APLNR	This gene encodes a member of the G protein-coupled receptor gene family. The encoded protein is related to the angiotensin receptor, but is actually an apelin receptor that inhibits adenylate cyclase activity and plays a counter-regulatory role against the pressure action of angiotensin II by exerting hypertensive effect. It functions in the cardiovascular and central nervous systems, in glucose metabolism, in embryonic and tumor angiogenesis and as a human immunodeficiency virus (HIV-1) coreceptor. Two transcript variants resulting from alternative splicing have been identified.
APOA1	This gene encodes apolipoprotein A-I, which is the major protein component of high density lipoprotein (HDL) in plasma. The encoded preproprotein is proteolytically processed to generate the mature protein, which promotes cholesterol efflux from tissues to the liver for excretion, and is a cofactor for lecithin cholesterolacyltransferase (LCAT), an enzyme responsible for the formation of most plasma cholesteryl esters. This gene is closely linked with two other apolipoprotein genes on chromosome 11. Defects in this gene are associated with HDL deficiencies, including Tangier disease, and with systemic non-neuropathic amyloidosis. Alternative splicing results in multiple transcript variants, at least one of which encodes a preproprotein.
APOB	This gene product is the main apolipoprotein of chylomicrons and low density lipoproteins. It occurs in plasma as two main isoforms, apoB-48 and apoB-100: the former is synthesized exclusively in the gut and the latter in the liver. The intestinal and the hepatic forms of apoB are encoded by a single gene from a single, very long mRNA. The two isoforms share a common N-terminal sequence. The shorter apoB-48 protein is produced after RNA editing of the apoB-100 transcript at residue 2180 (CAA->UAA), resulting in the creation of a stop codon, and early translation termination. Mutations in this gene or its regulatory region cause hypobetalipoproteinemia, normotriglyceridemic hypobetalipoproteinemia, and hypercholesterolemia due to ligand-defective apoB, diseases affecting plasma cholesterol and apoB levels.
APOBEC3A	This gene is a member of the cytidine deaminase gene family. It is one of seven related genes or pseudogenes found in a cluster, thought to result from gene duplication, on chromosome 22. Members of the cluster encode proteins that are structurally and functionally related to the C to U RNA-editing cytidine deaminase APOBEC1. The protein encoded by this gene lacks the zinc binding activity of other family members. The protein plays a role in immunity, by restricting transmission of foreign DNA such as viruses. One mechanism of foreign DNA restriction is deamination of foreign double-stranded DNA cytidines to uridines, which leads to DNA degradation. However, other mechanisms are also thought to be involved, as anti-viral effect is not dependent on deaminase activity. Two transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been found for this gene.
APOBEC3F	This gene is a member of the cytidine deaminase gene family. It is one of seven related genes or pseudogenes found in a cluster, thought to result from gene duplication, on chromosome 22. Members of the cluster encode proteins that are structurally and functionally related to the C to U RNA-editing cytidine deaminase APOBEC1. It is thought that the proteins may be RNA editing enzymes and have roles in growth or cell cycle control. Alternatively spliced transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been identified.
APOBEC3G	This gene is a member of the cytidine deaminase gene family. It is one of seven related genes or pseudogenes found in a cluster, thought to result from gene duplication, on chromosome 22. Members of the cluster encode proteins that are structurally and functionally related to the C to U RNA-editing cytidine deaminase APOBEC1. The protein encoded by this gene catalyzes site-specific deamination of both RNA and single-stranded DNA. The encoded protein has been found to be a specific inhibitor of human immunodeficiency virus-1 (HIV-1) infectivity.
APP	This gene encodes a cell surface receptor and transmembrane precursor protein that is cleaved by secretases to form a number of peptides. Some of these peptides are secreted and can bind to the acetyltransferase complex APBB1/TIP60 to promote transcriptional activation, while others form the protein basis of the amyloid plaques found in the brains of patients with Alzheimer disease. In addition, two of the peptides are antimicrobial peptides, having been shown to have bacteriocidal and antifungal activities. Mutations in this gene have been implicated in autosomal dominant Alzheimer disease and cerebroarterial amyloidosis (cerebral amyloid angiopathy). Multiple transcript variants encoding several different isoforms have been found for this gene.
AQP4	This gene encodes a member of the aquaporin family of intrinsic membrane proteins that function as water-selective channels in the plasma membranes of many cells. This protein is the predominant aquaporin found in brain and has an important role in brain water homeostasis. Alternatively spliced transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been described for this gene. Additional isoforms, resulting from the use of alternative in-frame translation initiation codons, have also been described. Recent studies provided evidence for translational readthrough in this gene, and expression of C-terminally extended isoforms via the use of an alternative in-frame translation termination codon.
AR	The androgen receptor gene is more than 90 kb long and codes for a protein that has 3 major functional domains: the N-terminal domain, DNA-binding domain, and androgen-binding domain. The protein functions as a steroid-hormone activated transcription factor. Upon binding the hormone ligand, the receptor dissociates from accessory proteins, translocates into the nucleus, dimerizes, and then stimulates transcription of androgen responsive genes. This gene contains 2 polymorphic trinucleotide repeat segments that encode polyglutamine and polyglycine tracts in the N-terminal transactivation domain of its protein. Expansion of the polyglutamine tract from the normal 9-34 repeats to the pathogenic 38-62 repeats causes spinal bulbar muscular atrophy (SBMA, also known as Kennedy's disease). Mutations in this gene are also associated with complete androgen insensitivity (CAIS). Alternative splicing results in multiple transcript variants encoding different isoforms.
ARAF	This proto-oncogene belongs to the RAF subfamily of the Ser/Thr protein kinase family, and maybe involved in cell growth and development. Alternatively spliced transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been found for this gene.
AREG	The protein encoded by this gene is a member of the epidermal growth factor family. It is an autocrine growth factor as well as a mitogen for astrocytes, Schwann cells and fibroblasts. It is related to epidermal growth factor (EGF) and transforming growth factor alpha (TGF-alpha). The protein interacts with the EGF/TGF-alpha receptor to promote the growth of normal epithelial cells, and it inhibits the growth of certain aggressive carcinoma cell lines. It also functions in mammary gland, oocyte and bone tissue development. This gene is associated with a psoriasis-like skin phenotype, and is also associated with other pathological disorders, including various types of cancers and inflammatory conditions.
ARF1	ADP-ribosylation factor 1 (ARF1) is a member of the human ARF gene family. The family members encode small guanine nucleotide-binding proteins that stimulate the ADP-ribosyltransferase activity of cholera toxin and play a role in vesicular trafficking as activators of phospholipase D. The gene products, including 6 ARF proteins and 11 ARF-like proteins, constitute a family of the RAS superfamily. The ARF proteins are categorized as class I (ARF1, ARF2 and ARF3), class II (ARF4 and ARF5) and class III (ARF6), and members of each class share a common gene organization. The ARF1 protein is localized to the Golgi apparatus and has a central role in intra-Golgi transport. Multiple alternatively spliced transcript variants encoding the same protein have been found for this gene.
ARF5	This gene is a member of the human ADP-ribosylation factor (ARF) gene family. These genes encode small guanine nucleotide-binding proteins that stimulate the ADP-ribosyltransferase activity of cholera toxin and play a role in vesicular trafficking and as activators of phospholipase D. The gene products include 6 ARF proteins and 11 ARF-like proteins and constitute 1 family of the RAS superfamily. The ARF proteins are categorized as class I (ARF1, ARF2,and ARF3), class II (ARF4 and ARF5) and class III (ARF6). The members of each class share a common gene organization.
ARF6	This gene encodes a member of the human ARF gene family, which is part of the RAS superfamily. The ARF genes encode small guanine nucleotide-binding proteins that stimulate the ADP-ribosyltransferase activity of cholera toxin and play a role in vesicular trafficking and as activators of phospholipase D. The product of this gene is localized to the plasma membrane, and regulates vesicular trafficking, remodelling of membrane lipids, and signaling pathways that lead to actin remodeling. A pseudogene of this gene is located on chromosome 7.
ARG1	Arginase catalyzes the hydrolysis of arginine to ornithine and urea. At least two isoforms of mammalian arginase exist (types I and II) which differ in their tissue distribution, subcellular localization, immunologic crossreactivity and physiologic function. The type I isoform encoded by this gene, is a cytosolic enzyme and expressed predominantly in the liver as a component of the urea cycle. Inherited deficiency of this enzyme results in argininemia, an autosomal recessive disorder characterized by hyperammonemia. Two transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been found for this gene.
ARG2	 Arginase catalyzes the hydrolysis of arginine to ornithine and urea.  At least two isoforms of mammalian arginase exists (types I and II) which differ in their tissue distribution, subcellular localization, immunologic crossreactivity and physiologic function.  The type II isoform encoded by this gene, is located in the mitochondria and expressed in extra-hepatic tissues, especially kidney.  The physiologic role of this isoform is poorly understood; it is thought to play a role in nitric oxide and polyamine metabolism.  Transcript variants of the type II gene resulting from the use of alternative polyadenylation sites have been described.
ARHGDIA	This gene encodes a protein that plays a key role in the regulation of signaling through Rho GTPases. The encoded protein inhibits the disassociation of Rho family members from GDP (guanine diphosphate), thereby maintaining these factors in an inactive state. Activity of this protein is important in a variety of cellular processes, and expression of this gene may be altered in tumors. Mutations in this gene have been found in individuals with nephrotic syndrome, type 8. Alternate splicing results in multiple transcript variants.
ARID4A	The protein encoded by this gene is a ubiquitously expressed nuclear protein. It binds directly, with several other proteins, to retinoblastoma protein (pRB) which regulates cell proliferation. pRB represses transcription by recruiting the encoded protein. This protein, in turn, serves as a bridging molecule to recruit HDACs and, in addition, provides a second HDAC-independent repression function. The encoded protein possesses transcriptional repression activity. Multiple alternatively spliced transcripts have been observed for this gene, although not all transcript variants have been fully described.
ARNT	This gene encodes a protein containing a basic helix-loop-helix domain and two characteristic PAS domains along with a PAC domain. The encoded protein binds to ligand-bound aryl hydrocarbon receptor and aids in the movement of this complex to the nucleus, where it promotes the expression of genes involved in xenobiotic metabolism. This protein is also a co-factor for transcriptional regulation by hypoxia-inducible factor 1. Chromosomal translocation of this locus with the ETV6 (ets variant 6) gene on chromosome 12 have been described in leukemias. Alternative splicing results in multiple transcript variants.
ARRB1	Members of arrestin/beta-arrestin protein family are thought to participate in agonist-mediated desensitization of G-protein-coupled receptors and cause specific dampening of cellular responses to stimuli such as hormones, neurotransmitters, or sensory signals. Arrestin beta 1 is a cytosolic protein and acts as a cofactor in the beta-adrenergic receptor kinase (BARK) mediated desensitization of beta-adrenergic receptors. Besides the central nervous system, it is expressed at high levels in peripheral blood leukocytes, and thus the BARK/beta-arrestin system is believed to play a major role in regulating receptor-mediated immune functions. Alternatively spliced transcripts encoding different isoforms of arrestin beta 1 have been described.
ARSA	The protein encoded by this gene hydrolyzes cerebroside sulfate to cerebroside and sulfate. Defects in this gene lead to metachromatic leucodystrophy (MLD), a progressive demyelination disease which results in a variety of neurological symptoms and ultimately death. Alternatively spliced transcript variants have been described for this gene.
ARSB	Arylsulfatase B encoded by this gene belongs to the sulfatase family. The arylsulfatase B homodimer hydrolyzes sulfate groups of N-Acetyl-D-galactosamine, chondriotin sulfate, and dermatan sulfate. The protein is targeted to the lysozyme. Mucopolysaccharidosis type VI is an autosomal recessive lysosomal storage disorder resulting from a deficiency of arylsulfatase B. Two alternatively spliced transcript variants encoding distinct isoforms have been found for this gene.
ARSG	The protein encoded by this gene belongs to the sulfatase enzyme family. Sulfatases hydrolyze sulfate esters from sulfated steroids, carbohydrates, proteoglycans, and glycolipids. They are involved in hormone biosynthesis, modulation of cell signaling, and degradation of macromolecules. This protein displays arylsulfatase activity at acidic pH, as is typical of lysosomal sulfatases, and has been shown to localize in the lysosomes. Alternatively spliced transcript variants have been found for this gene.
ASAH1	This gene encodes a member of the acid ceramidase family of proteins. Alternative splicing results in multiple transcript variants, at least one of which encodes a preproprotein that is proteolytically processed. Processing of this preproprotein generates alpha and beta subunits that heterodimerize to form the mature lysosomal enzyme, which catalyzes the degradation of ceramide into sphingosine and free fatty acid. This enzyme is overexpressed in multiple human cancers and may play a role in cancer progression. Mutations in this gene are associated with the lysosomal storage disorder, Farber lipogranulomatosis, and a neuromuscular disorder, spinal muscular atrophy with progressive myoclonic epilepsy.
ASAH2	Ceramidases (EC 3.5.1.23), such as ASAH2, catalyze hydrolysis of the N-acyl linkage of ceramide, a second messenger in a variety of cellular events, to produce sphingosine. Sphingosine exerts both mitogenic and apoptosis-inducing activities, and its phosphorylated form functions as an intra- and intercellular second messenger (see MIM 603730) (Mitsutake et al., 2001
ASAP1	This gene encodes an ADP-ribosylation factor (ARF) GTPase-activating protein. The GTPase-activating activity is stimulated by phosphatidylinositol 4,5-biphosphate (PIP2), and is greater towards ARF1 and ARF5, and lesser for ARF6. This gene maybe involved in regulation of membrane trafficking and cytoskeleton remodeling. Alternatively spliced transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been found for this gene.
ASF1A	This gene encodes a member of the H3/H4 family of histone chaperone proteins and is similar to the anti-silencing function-1 gene in yeast. The protein is a key component of a histone donor complex that functions in nucleosome assembly. It interacts with histones H3 and H4, and functions together with a chromatin assembly factor during DNA replication and repair.
ASGR1	This gene encodes a subunit of the asialoglycoprotein receptor. This receptor is a transmembrane protein that plays a critical role in serum glycoprotein homeostasis by mediating the endocytosis and lysosomal degradation of glycoproteins with exposed terminal galactose or N-acetylgalactosamine residues. The asialoglycoprotein receptor may facilitate hepatic infection by multiple viruses including hepatitis B, and is also a target for liver-specific drug delivery. The asialoglycoprotein receptor is a hetero-oligomeric protein composed of major and minor subunits, which are encoded by different genes. The protein encoded by this gene is the more abundant major subunit. Alternatively spliced transcript variants encoding multiple isoforms have been observed for this gene.
ASH1L	This gene encodes a member of the trithorax group of transcriptional activators. The protein contains four AT hooks, a SET domain, a PHD-finger motif, and a bromodomain. It is localized to many small speckles in the nucleus, and also to cell-cell tight junctions.
ASIC1	This gene encodes a member of the acid-sensing ion channel (ASIC) family of proteins, which are part of the degenerin/epithelial sodium channel (DEG/ENaC) superfamily. Members of the ASIC family are sensitive to amiloride and function in neurotransmission. The encoded proteins function in learning, pain transduction, touch sensation, and development of memory and fear. Alternatively spliced transcript variants have been described.
ASIC3	This gene encodes a member of the degenerin/epithelial sodium channel (DEG/ENaC) superfamily. The members of this family are amiloride-sensitive sodium channels that contain intracellular N and C termini, two hydrophobic transmembrane regions, and a large extracellular loop, which has many cysteine residues with conserved spacing. The member encoded by this gene is an acid sensor and may play an important role in the detection of lasting pH changes. In addition, a heteromeric association between this member and acid-sensing (proton-gated) ion channel 2 has been observed as proton-gated channels sensitive to gadolinium. Alternatively spliced transcript variants have been described.
ASNS	The protein encoded by this gene is involved in the synthesis of asparagine. This gene complements a mutation in the temperature-sensitive hamster mutant ts11, which blocks progression through the G1 phase of the cell cycle at nonpermissive temperature. Alternatively spliced transcript variants have been described for this gene.
ATAD2	A large family of ATPases has been described, whose key feature is that they share a conserved region of about 220 amino acids that contains an ATP-binding site. The proteins that belong to this family either contain one or two AAA (ATPases Associated with diverse cellular Activities) domains. AAA family proteins often perform chaperone-like functions that assist in the assembly, operation, or disassembly of protein complexes. The protein encoded by this gene contains two AAA domains, as well as a bromodomain.
ATAD5	Involved in DNA damage response. Involved in a RAD9A-related damage checkpoint, a pathway that is important in determining whether DNA damage is compatible with cell survival or whether it requires cell elimination by apoptosis. Modulates the RAD9A interaction with BCL2 and thereby induces DNA damages-induced apoptosis.
ATF1	This gene encodes an activating transcription factor, which belongs to the ATF subfamily and bZIP (basic-region leucine zipper) family. It influences cellular physiologic processes by regulating the expression of downstream target genes, which are related to growth, survival, and other cellular activities. This protein is phosphorylated at serine 63 in its kinase-inducible domain by serine/threonine kinases, cAMP-dependent protein kinase A, calmodulin-dependent protein kinase I/II, mitogen- and stress-activated protein kinase and cyclin-dependent kinase 3 (cdk-3). Its phosphorylation enhances its transactivation and transcriptional activities, and enhances cell transformation. Fusion of this gene and FUS on chromosome 16 or EWSR1 on chromosome 22 induced by translocation generates chimeric proteins in angiomatoid fibrous histiocytoma and clear cell sarcoma. This gene has a pseudogene on chromosome 6.
ATG4B	Autophagy is the process by which endogenous proteins and damaged organelles are destroyed intracellularly. Autophagy is postulated to be essential for cell homeostasis and cell remodeling during differentiation, metamorphosis, non-apoptotic cell death, and aging. Reduced levels of autophagy have been described in some malignant tumors, and a role for autophagy in controlling the unregulated cell growth linked to cancer has been proposed. This gene encodes a member of the autophagin protein family. The encoded protein is also designated as a member of the C-54 family of cysteine proteases. Alternate transcriptional splice variants, encoding different isoforms, have been characterized.
ATG7	This gene encodes an E1-like activating enzyme that is essential for autophagy and cytoplasmic to vacuole transport. The encoded protein is also thought to modulate p53-dependent cell cycle pathways during prolonged metabolic stress. It has been associated with multiple functions, including axon membrane trafficking, axonal homeostasis, mitophagy, adipose differentiation, and hematopoietic stem cell maintenance. Alternative splicing results in multiple transcript variants.
ATIC	This gene encodes a bifunctional protein that catalyzes the last two steps of the de novo purine biosynthetic pathway. The N-terminal domain has phosphoribosylaminoimidazolecarboxamide formyltransferase activity, and the C-terminal domain has IMP cyclohydrolase activity. A mutation in this gene results in AICA-ribosiduria.
ATM	The protein encoded by this gene belongs to the PI3/PI4-kinase family. This protein is an important cell cycle checkpoint kinase that phosphorylates; thus, it functions as a regulator of a wide variety of downstream proteins, including tumor suppressor proteins p53 and BRCA1, checkpoint kinase CHK2, checkpoint proteins RAD17 and RAD9, and DNA repair protein NBS1. This protein and the closely related kinase ATR are thought to be master controllers of cell cycle checkpoint signaling pathways that are required for cell response to DNA damage and for genome stability. Mutations in this gene are associated with ataxia telangiectasia, an autosomal recessive disorder.
ATP12A	The protein encoded by this gene belongs to the family of P-type cation transport ATPases. This gene encodes a catalytic subunit of the ouabain-sensitive H+/K+ -ATPase that catalyzes the hydrolysis of ATP coupled with the exchange of H(+) and K(+) ions across the plasma membrane. It is also responsible for potassium absorption in various tissues. Two transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been found for this gene.
ATP1A1	The protein encoded by this gene belongs to the family of P-type cation transport ATPases, and to the subfamily of Na+/K+ -ATPases. Na+/K+ -ATPase is an integral membrane protein responsible for establishing and maintaining the electrochemical gradients of Na and K ions across the plasma membrane. These gradients are essential for osmoregulation, for sodium-coupled transport of a variety of organic and inorganic molecules, and for electrical excitability of nerve and muscle. This enzyme is composed of two subunits, a large catalytic subunit (alpha) and a smaller glycoprotein subunit (beta). The catalytic subunit of Na+/K+ -ATPase is encoded by multiple genes. This gene encodes an alpha 1 subunit. Multiple transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been found for this gene.
ATP2A1	This gene encodes one of the SERCA Ca(2+)-ATPases, which are intracellular pumps located in the sarcoplasmic or endoplasmic reticula of muscle cells. This enzyme catalyzes the hydrolysis of ATP coupled with the translocation of calcium from the cytosol to the sarcoplasmic reticulum lumen, and is involved in muscular excitation and contraction. Mutations in this gene cause some autosomal recessive forms of Brody disease, characterized by increasing impairment of muscular relaxation during exercise. Alternative splicing results in three transcript variants encoding different isoforms.
ATP2A2	This gene encodes one of the SERCA Ca(2+)-ATPases, which are intracellular pumps located in the sarcoplasmic or endoplasmic reticula of muscle cells. This enzyme catalyzes the hydrolysis of ATP coupled with the translocation of calcium from the cytosol into the sarcoplasmic reticulum lumen, and is involved in regulation of the contraction/relaxation cycle. Mutations in this gene cause Darier-White disease, also known as keratosis follicularis, an autosomal dominant skin disorder characterized by loss of adhesion between epidermal cells and abnormal keratinization. Alternative splicing results in multiple transcript variants encoding different isoforms.
ATP4A	The protein encoded by this gene belongs to a family of P-type cation-transporting ATPases. The gastric H+, K+-ATPase is a heterodimer consisting of a high molecular weight catalytic alpha subunit and a smaller but heavily glycosylated beta subunit. This enzyme is a proton pump that catalyzes the hydrolysis of ATP coupled with the exchange of H(+) and K(+) ions across the plasma membrane. It is also responsible for gastric acid secretion. This gene encodes a catalytic alpha subunit of the gastric H+, K+-ATPase.
ATP6AP1	This gene encodes a component of a multisubunit enzyme that mediates acidification of eukaryotic intracellular organelles. Vacuolar ATPase (V-ATPase) is comprised of a cytosolic V1 (site of the ATP catalytic site) and a transmembrane V0 domain. V-ATPase dependent organelle acidification is necessary for such intracellular processes as protein sorting, zymogen activation, and receptor-mediated endocytosis. The encoded protein of this gene may assist in the V-ATPase-mediated acidification of neuroendocrine secretory granules. This protein may also play a role in early development.
ATP6V1B1	This gene encodes a component of vacuolar ATPase (V-ATPase), a multisubunit enzyme that mediates acidification of eukaryotic intracellular organelles. V-ATPase dependent organelle acidification is necessary for such intracellular processes as protein sorting, zymogen activation, receptor-mediated endocytosis, and synaptic vesicle proton gradient generation. V-ATPase is composed of a cytosolic V1 domain and a transmembrane V0 domain. The V1 domain consists of three A and three B subunits, two G subunits plus the C, D, E, F, and H subunits. The V1 domain contains the ATP catalytic site. The V0 domain consists of five different subunits: a, c, c', c'', and d. Additional isoforms of many of the V1 and V0 subunit proteins are encoded by multiple genes or alternatively spliced transcript variants. This encoded protein is one of two V1 domain B subunit isoforms and is found in the kidney. Mutations in this gene cause distal renal tubular acidosis associated with sensorineural deafness.
ATP6V1B2	This gene encodes a component of vacuolar ATPase (V-ATPase), a multisubunit enzyme that mediates acidification of eukaryotic intracellular organelles. V-ATPase dependent organelle acidification is necessary for such intracellular processes as protein sorting, zymogen activation, receptor-mediated endocytosis, and synaptic vesicle proton gradient generation. V-ATPase is composed of a cytosolic V1 domain and a transmembrane V0 domain. The V1 domain consists of three A, three B, and two G subunits, as well as a C, D, E, F, and H subunit. The V1 domain contains the ATP catalytic site. The protein encoded by this gene is one of two V1 domain B subunit isoforms and is the only B isoform highly expressed in osteoclasts.
ATR	The protein encoded by this gene is a serine/threonine kinase and DNA damage sensor, activating cell cycle checkpoint signaling upon DNA stress. The encoded protein can phosphorylate and activate several proteins involved in the inhibition of DNA replication and mitosis, and can promote DNA repair, recombination, and apoptosis. This protein is also important for fragile site stability and centrosome duplication. Defects in this gene are a cause of Seckel syndrome 1.
ATXN2	This gene belongs to a group of genes that is associated with microsatellite-expansion diseases, a class of neurological and neuromuscular disorders caused by expansion of short stretches of repetitive DNA. The protein encoded by this gene has two globular domains near the N-terminus, one of which contains a clathrin-mediated trans-Golgi signal and an endoplasmic reticulum exit signal. The encoded cytoplasmic protein localizes to the endoplasmic reticulum and plasma membrane, is involved in endocytosis, and modulates mTOR signals, modifying ribosomal translation and mitochondrial function. The N-terminal region of the protein contains a polyglutamine tract of 14-31 residues that can be expanded in the pathogenic state to 32-200 residues. Intermediate length expansions of this tract increase susceptibility to amyotrophic lateral sclerosis, while long expansions of this tract result in spinocerebellar ataxia-2, an autosomal-dominantly inherited, neurodegenerative disorder. Genome-wide association studies indicate that loss-of-function mutations in this gene may be associated with susceptibility to type I diabetes, obesity and hypertension. Alternative splicing results in multiple transcript variants.
AURKA	The protein encoded by this gene is a cell cycle-regulated kinase that appears to be involved in microtubule formation and/or stabilization at the spindle pole during chromosome segregation. The encoded protein is found at the centrosome in interphase cells and at the spindle poles in mitosis. This gene may play a role in tumor development and progression. A processed pseudogene of this gene has been found on chromosome 1, and an unprocessed pseudogene has been found on chromosome 10. Multiple transcript variants encoding the same protein have been found for this gene.
AURKAIP1	May act as a negative regulator of Aurora-A kinase, by down-regulation through proteasome-dependent degradation.
AURKB	This gene encodes a member of the aurora kinase subfamily of serine/threonine kinases. The genes encoding the other two members of this subfamily are located on chromosomes 19 and 20. These kinases participate in the regulation of alignment and segregation of chromosomes during mitosis and meiosis through association with microtubules. A pseudogene of this gene is located on chromosome 8. Alternatively spliced transcript variants have been found for this gene.
AURKC	This gene encodes a member of the Aurora subfamily of serine/threonine protein kinases. The encoded protein is a chromosomal passenger protein that forms complexes with Aurora-B and inner centromere proteins and may play a role in organizing microtubules in relation to centrosome/spindle function during mitosis. This gene is overexpressed in several cancer cell lines, suggesting an involvement in oncogenic signal transduction. Alternative splicing results in multiple transcript variants.
AVPR1A	The protein encoded by this gene acts as receptor for arginine vasopressin. This receptor belongs to the subfamily of G-protein coupled receptors which includes AVPR1B, V2R and OXT receptors. Its activity is mediated by G proteins which stimulate a phosphatidylinositol-calcium second messenger system. The receptor mediates cell contraction and proliferation, platelet aggregation, release of coagulation factor and glycogenolysis.
AVPR1B	The protein encoded by this gene acts as receptor for arginine vasopressin. This receptor belongs to the subfamily of G-protein coupled receptors which includes AVPR1A, V2R and OXT receptors. Its activity is mediated by G proteins which stimulate a phosphatidylinositol-calcium second messenger system. The receptor is primarily located in the anterior pituitary, where it stimulates ACTH release. It is expressed at high levels in ACTH-secreting pituitary adenomas as well as in bronchial carcinoids responsible for the ectopic ACTH syndrome. A spliced antisense transcript of this gene has been reported but its function is not known.
AVPR2	This gene encodes the vasopressin receptor, type 2, also known as the V2 receptor, which belongs to the seven-transmembrane-domain G protein-coupled receptor (GPCR) superfamily, and couples to Gs thus stimulating adenylate cyclase. The subfamily that includes the V2 receptor, the V1a and V1b vasopressin receptors, the oxytocin receptor, and isotocin and mesotocin receptors in non-mammals, is well conserved, though several members signal via other G proteins. All bind similar cyclic nonapeptide hormones. The V2 receptor is expressed in the kidney tubule, predominantly in the distal convoluted tubule and collecting ducts, where its primary property is to respond to the pituitary hormone arginine vasopressin (AVP) by stimulating mechanisms that concentrate the urine and maintain water homeostasis in the organism. When the function of this gene is lost, the disease Nephrogenic Diabetes Insipidus (NDI) results. The V2 receptor is also expressed outside the kidney although its tissue localization is uncertain. When these 'extrarenal receptors' are stimulated by infusion of a V2 selective agonist (dDAVP), a variety of clotting factors are released into the bloodstream. The physiologic importance of this property is not known
AWAT1	The protein encoded by this gene belongs to the diacylglycerol acyltransferase family. It esterifies long chain (wax) alcohols with acyl-CoA-derived fatty acids to produce wax esters. Wax esters are enriched in sebum, suggesting that this enzyme plays a central role in lipid metabolism in skin. Consistent with this observation, this protein is predominantly expressed in the sebaceous gland of the skin.
AWAT2	This gene encodes an enzyme belonging to the diacylglycerol acyltransferase family. This enzyme produces wax esters by the esterification of long chain (or wax) alcohols with acyl-CoA-derived fatty acids. It functions in lipid metabolism in the skin, mostly in undifferentiated peripheral sebocytes. This enzyme may also have acyl-CoA:retinol acyltransferase activities, where it catalyzes the synthesis of diacylglycerols and retinyl esters.
AXIN1	This gene encodes a cytoplasmic protein which contains a regulation of G-protein signaling (RGS) domain and a dishevelled and axin (DIX) domain. The encoded protein interacts with adenomatosis polyposis coli, catenin beta-1, glycogen synthase kinase 3 beta, protein phosphate 2, and itself. This protein functions as a negative regulator of the wingless-type MMTV integration site family, member 1 (WNT) signaling pathway and can induce apoptosis. The crystal structure of a portion of this protein, alone and in a complex with other proteins, has been resolved. Mutations in this gene have been associated with hepatocellular carcinoma, hepatoblastomas, ovarian endometriod adenocarcinomas, and medullablastomas. Alternative splicing results in multiple transcript variants.
AXIN2	The Axin-related protein, Axin2, presumably plays an important role in the regulation of the stability of beta-catenin in the Wnt signaling pathway, like its rodent homologs, mouse conductin/rat axil. In mouse, conductin organizes a multiprotein complex of APC (adenomatous polyposis of the colon), beta-catenin, glycogen synthase kinase 3-beta, and conductin, which leads to the degradation of beta-catenin. Apparently, the deregulation of beta-catenin is an important event in the genesis of a number of malignancies. The AXIN2 gene has been mapped to 17q23-q24, a region that shows frequent loss of heterozygosity in breast cancer, neuroblastoma, and other tumors. Mutations in this gene have been associated with colorectal cancer with defective mismatch repair.
AXL	The protein encoded by this gene is a member of the Tyro3-Axl-Mer (TAM) receptor tyrosine kinase subfamily. The encoded protein possesses an extracellular domain which is composed of two immunoglobulin-like motifs at the N-terminal, followed by two fibronectin type-III motifs. It transduces signals from the extracellular matrix into the cytoplasm by binding to the vitamin K-dependent protein growth arrest-specific 6 (Gas6). This gene may be involved in several cellular functions including growth, migration, aggregation and anti-inflammation in multiple cell types. Alternative splicing results in multiple transcript variants of this gene.
B3GALT1	This gene is a member of the beta-1,3-galactosyltransferase (beta3GalT) gene family. This family encodes type II membrane-bound glycoproteins with diverse enzymatic functions using different donor substrates (UDP-galactose and UDP-N-acetylglucosamine) and different acceptor sugars (N-acetylglucosamine, galactose, N-acetylgalactosamine). The beta3GalT genes are distantly related to the Drosophila Brainiac gene and have the protein coding sequence contained in a single exon. The beta3GalT proteins also contain conserved sequences not found in the beta4GalT or alpha3GalT proteins. The carbohydrate chains synthesized by these enzymes are designated as type 1, whereas beta4GalT enzymes synthesize type 2 carbohydrate chains. The ratio of type 1:type 2 chains changes during embryogenesis. By sequence similarity, the beta3GalT genes fall into at least two groups: beta3GalT4 and 4 other beta3GalT genes (beta3GalT1-3, beta3GalT5). This gene is expressed exclusively in the brain. The encoded protein shows strict donor substrate specificity for UDP-galactose.
B3GNT3	This gene encodes a member of the beta-1,3-N-acetylglucosaminyltransferase family. This enzyme is a type II transmembrane protein and contains a signal anchor that is not cleaved. It prefers the substrates of lacto-N-tetraose and lacto-N-neotetraose, and is involved in the biosynthesis of poly-N-acetyllactosamine chains and the biosynthesis of the backbone structure of dimeric sialyl Lewis a. It plays dominant roles in L-selectin ligand biosynthesis, lymphocyte homing and lymphocyte trafficking.
B3GNT6	The protein encoded by this gene is a beta-1,3-N-acetylglucosaminyltransferase that adds an N-acetylglucosamine moiety to N-acetylgalactosamine-modified serine or threonine. The encoded enzyme is responsible for creating the core 3 structure of O-glycans, which are important components of mucin-type glycoproteins.
B4GALT1	This gene is one of seven beta-1,4-galactosyltransferase (beta4GalT) genes. They encode type II membrane-bound glycoproteins that appear to have exclusive specificity for the donor substrate UDP-galactose; all transfer galactose in a beta1,4 linkage to similar acceptor sugars: GlcNAc, Glc, and Xyl. Each beta4GalT has a distinct function in the biosynthesis of different glycoconjugates and saccharide structures. As type II membrane proteins, they have an N-terminal hydrophobic signal sequence that directs the protein to the Golgi apparatus and which then remains uncleaved to function as a transmembrane anchor. By sequence similarity, the beta4GalTs form four groups: beta4GalT1 and beta4GalT2, beta4GalT3 and beta4GalT4, beta4GalT5 and beta4GalT6, and beta4GalT7. This gene is unique among the beta4GalT genes because it encodes an enzyme that participates both in glycoconjugate and lactose biosynthesis. For the first activity, the enzyme adds galactose to N-acetylglucosamine residues that are either monosaccharides or the nonreducing ends of glycoprotein carbohydrate chains. The second activity is restricted to lactating mammary tissues where the enzyme forms a heterodimer with alpha-lactalbumin to catalyze UDP-galactose + D-glucose <=> UDP + lactose. The two enzymatic forms result from alternate transcription initiation sites and post-translational processing. Two transcripts, which differ only at the 5' end, with approximate lengths of 4.1 kb and 3.9 kb encode the same protein. The longer transcript encodes the type II membrane-bound, trans-Golgi resident protein involved in glycoconjugate biosynthesis. The shorter transcript encodes a protein which is cleaved to form the soluble lactose synthase.
BACE1	This gene encodes a member of the peptidase A1 family of aspartic proteases. Alternative splicing results in multiple transcript variants, at least one of which encodes a preproprotein that is proteolytically processed to generate the mature protease. This transmembrane protease catalyzes the first step in the formation of amyloid beta peptide from amyloid precursor protein. Amyloid beta peptides are the main constituent of amyloid beta plaques, which accumulate in the brains of human Alzheimer's disease patients.
BACE2	This gene encodes an integral membrane glycoprotein that functions as an aspartic protease. The encoded protein cleaves amyloid precursor protein into amyloid beta peptide, which is a critical step in the etiology of Alzheimer's disease and Down syndrome. The protein precursor is further processed into an active mature peptide. Alternative splicing results in multiple transcript variants.
BAD	The protein encoded by this gene is a member of the BCL-2 family. BCL-2 family members are known to be regulators of programmed cell death. This protein positively regulates cell apoptosis by forming heterodimers with BCL-xL and BCL-2, and reversing their death repressor activity. Proapoptotic activity of this protein is regulated through its phosphorylation. Protein kinases AKT and MAP kinase, as well as protein phosphatase calcineurin were found to be involved in the regulation of this protein. Alternative splicing of this gene results in two transcript variants which encode the same isoform.
BAK1	The protein encoded by this gene belongs to the BCL2 protein family. BCL2 family members form oligomers or heterodimers and act as anti- or pro-apoptotic regulators that are involved in a wide variety of cellular activities. This protein localizes to mitochondria, and functions to induce apoptosis. It interacts with and accelerates the opening of the mitochondrial voltage-dependent anion channel, which leads to a loss in membrane potential and the release of cytochrome c. This protein also interacts with the tumor suppressor P53 after exposure to cell stress.
BAP1	This gene belongs to the ubiquitin C-terminal hydrolase subfamily of deubiquitinating enzymes that are involved in the removal of ubiquitin from proteins. The encoded enzyme binds to the breast cancer type 1 susceptibility protein (BRCA1) via the RING finger domain of the latter and acts as a tumor suppressor. In addition, the enzyme may be involved in regulation of transcription, regulation of cell cycle and growth, response to DNA damage and chromatin dynamics. Germline mutations in this gene may be associated with tumor predisposition syndrome (TPDS), which involves increased risk of cancers including malignant mesothelioma, uveal melanoma and cutaneous melanoma.
BAX	The protein encoded by this gene belongs to the BCL2 protein family. BCL2 family members form hetero- or homodimers and act as anti- or pro-apoptotic regulators that are involved in a wide variety of cellular activities. This protein forms a heterodimer with BCL2, and functions as an apoptotic activator. This protein is reported to interact with, and increase the opening of, the mitochondrial voltage-dependent anion channel (VDAC), which leads to the loss in membrane potential and the release of cytochrome c. The expression of this gene is regulated by the tumor suppressor P53 and has been shown to be involved in P53-mediated apoptosis. Multiple alternatively spliced transcript variants, which encode different isoforms, have been reported for this gene.
BAZ1B	This gene encodes a member of the bromodomain protein family. The bromodomain is a structural motif characteristic of proteins involved in chromatin-dependent regulation of transcription. This gene is deleted in Williams-Beuren syndrome, a developmental disorder caused by deletion of multiple genes at 7q11.23.
BAZ2A	Essential component of the NoRC (nucleolar remodeling complex) complex, a complex that mediates silencing of a fraction of rDNA by recruiting histone-modifying enzymes and DNA methyltransferases, leading to heterochromatin formation and transcriptional silencing. In the complex, it plays a central role by being recruited to rDNA and by targeting chromatin modifying enzymes such as HDAC1, leading to repress RNA polymerase I transcription. Recruited to rDNA via its interaction with TTF1 and its ability to recognize and bind histone H4 acetylated on 'Lys-16' (H4K16ac), leading to deacetylation of H4K5ac, H4K8ac, H4K12ac but not H4K16ac. Specifically binds pRNAs, 150-250 nucleotide RNAs that are complementary in sequence to the rDNA promoter; pRNA-binding is required for heterochromatin formation and rDNA silencing (By similarity).
BAZ2B	This gene belongs to the bromodomain gene family. Members of this gene family encode proteins that are integral components of chromatin remodeling complexes. The encoded protein showed strong preference for the activating H3K14Ac mark in a histone peptide screen, suggesting a potential role in transcriptional activation. This gene may be associated with susceptibility to sudden cardiac death (SCD).
BBOX1	This gene encodes gamma butyrobetaine hydroxylase which catalyzes the formation of L-carnitine from gamma-butyrobetaine, the last step in the L-carnitine biosynthetic pathway. Carnitine is essential for the transport of activated fatty acids across the mitochondrial membrane during mitochondrial beta-oxidation.
BCAT1	This gene encodes the cytosolic form of the enzyme branched-chain amino acid transaminase. This enzyme catalyzes the reversible transamination of branched-chain alpha-keto acids to branched-chain L-amino acids essential for cell growth. Two different clinical disorders have been attributed to a defect of branched-chain amino acid transamination: hypervalinemia and hyperleucine-isoleucinemia. As there is also a gene encoding a mitochondrial form of this enzyme, mutations in either gene may contribute to these disorders. Alternatively spliced transcript variants have been described.
BCAT2	This gene encodes a branched chain aminotransferase found in mitochondria. The encoded protein forms a dimer that catalyzes the first step in the production of the branched chain amino acids leucine, isoleucine, and valine. Multiple transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been found for this gene.
BCDIN3D	This gene encodes an RNA methyltransferase which belongs to the rossmann fold methyltransferase family, and serves as a 5'-methylphosphate capping enzyme that is specific for cytoplasmic histidyl tRNA. The encoded protein contains an S-adenosylmethionine binding domain and uses the methyl group donor, S-adenosylmethionine. This gene is overexpressed in breast cancer cells, and is related to the tumorigenic phenotype and poor prognosis of breast cancer. The encoded protein is thought to promote the cellular invasion of breast cancer cells, by downregulating the expression of tumor suppressor miRNAs through the dimethylation of the 5-monophosphate of the corresponding precursor miRNAs.
BCHE	This gene encodes a cholinesterase enzyme and member of the type-B carboxylesterase/lipase family of proteins. The encoded enzyme exhibits broad substrate specificity and is involved in the detoxification of poisons including organophosphate nerve agents and pesticides, and the metabolism of drugs including cocaine, heroin and aspirin. Humans homozygous for certain mutations in this gene exhibit prolonged apnea after administration of the muscle relaxant succinylcholine.
BCL2	This gene encodes an integral outer mitochondrial membrane protein that blocks the apoptotic death of some cells such as lymphocytes. Constitutive expression of BCL2, such as in the case of translocation of BCL2 to Ig heavy chain locus, is thought to be the cause of follicular lymphoma. Alternative splicing results in multiple transcript variants.
BCL2A1	This gene encodes a member of the BCL-2 protein family. The proteins of this family form hetero- or homodimers and act as anti- and pro-apoptotic regulators that are involved in a wide variety of cellular activities such as embryonic development, homeostasis and tumorigenesis. The protein encoded by this gene is able to reduce the release of pro-apoptotic cytochrome c from mitochondria and block caspase activation. This gene is a direct transcription target of NF-kappa B in response to inflammatory mediators, and is up-regulated by different extracellular signals, such as granulocyte-macrophage colony-stimulating factor (GM-CSF), CD40, phorbol ester and inflammatory cytokine TNF and IL-1, which suggests a cytoprotective function that is essential for lymphocyte activation as well as cell survival. Alternatively spliced transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been found for this gene.
BCL2L1	The protein encoded by this gene belongs to the BCL-2 protein family. BCL-2 family members form hetero- or homodimers and act as anti- or pro-apoptotic regulators that are involved in a wide variety of cellular activities. The proteins encoded by this gene are located at the outer mitochondrial membrane, and have been shown to regulate outer mitochondrial membrane channel (VDAC) opening. VDAC regulates mitochondrial membrane potential, and thus controls the production of reactive oxygen species and release of cytochrome C by mitochondria, both of which are the potent inducers of cell apoptosis. Alternative splicing results in multiple transcript variants encoding two different isoforms. The longer isoform acts as an apoptotic inhibitor and the shorter isoform acts as an apoptotic activator.
BCL2L10	The protein encoded by this gene belongs to the BCL-2 protein family. BCL-2 family members form hetero- or homodimers and act as anti- or pro-apoptotic regulators that are involved in a wide variety of cellular activities. The protein encoded by this gene contains conserved BH4, BH1 and BH2 domains. This protein can interact with other members of BCL-2 protein family including BCL2, BCL2L1/BCL-X(L), and BAX. Overexpression of this gene has been shown to suppress cell apoptosis possibly through the prevention of cytochrome C release from the mitochondria, and thus activating caspase-3 activation. The mouse counterpart of this protein is found to interact with Apaf1 and forms a protein complex with Caspase 9, which suggests the involvement of this protein in APAF1 and CASPASE 9 related apoptotic pathway.
BCL2L11	The protein encoded by this gene belongs to the BCL-2 protein family. BCL-2 family members form hetero- or homodimers and act as anti- or pro-apoptotic regulators that are involved in a wide variety of cellular activities. The protein encoded by this gene contains a Bcl-2 homology domain 3 (BH3). It has been shown to interact with other members of the BCL-2 protein family and to act as an apoptotic activator. The expression of this gene can be induced by nerve growth factor (NGF), as well as by the forkhead transcription factor FKHR-L1, which suggests a role of this gene in neuronal and lymphocyte apoptosis. Transgenic studies of the mouse counterpart suggested that this gene functions as an essential initiator of apoptosis in thymocyte-negative selection. Several alternatively spliced transcript variants of this gene have been identified.
BCL2L2	This gene encodes a member of the BCL-2 protein family. The proteins of this family form hetero- or homodimers and act as anti- and pro-apoptotic regulators. Expression of this gene in cells has been shown to contribute to reduced cell apoptosis under cytotoxic conditions. Studies of the related gene in mice indicated a role in the survival of NGF- and BDNF-dependent neurons. Mutation and knockout studies of the mouse gene demonstrated an essential role in adult spermatogenesis. Alternative splicing results in multiple transcript variants. Read-through transcription also exists between this gene and the neighboring downstream PABPN1 (poly(A) binding protein, nuclear 1) gene.
BCL9	BCL9 is associated with B-cell acute lymphoblastic leukemia. It may be a target of translocation in B-cell malignancies with abnormalities of 1q21. Its function is unknown. The overexpression of BCL9 may be of pathogenic significance in B-cell malignancies.
BCR	A reciprocal translocation between chromosomes 22 and 9 produces the Philadelphia chromosome, which is often found in patients with chronic myelogenous leukemia. The chromosome 22 breakpoint for this translocation is located within the BCR gene. The translocation produces a fusion protein which is encoded by sequence from both BCR and ABL, the gene at the chromosome 9 breakpoint. Although the BCR-ABL fusion protein has been extensively studied, the function of the normal BCR gene product is not clear. The protein has serine/threonine kinase activity and is a GTPase-activating protein for p21rac. Two transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been found for this gene.
BDKRB1	Bradykinin, a 9 aa peptide, is generated in pathophysiologic conditions such as inflammation, trauma, burns, shock, and allergy. Two types of G-protein coupled receptors have been found which bind bradykinin and mediate responses to these pathophysiologic conditions. The protein encoded by this gene is one of these receptors and is synthesized de novo following tissue injury. Receptor binding leads to an increase in the cytosolic calcium ion concentration, ultimately resulting in chronic and acute inflammatory responses. Several transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been found for this gene.
BDKRB2	This gene encodes a receptor for bradykinin. The 9 aa bradykinin peptide elicits many responses including vasodilation, edema, smooth muscle spasm and pain fiber stimulation. This receptor associates with G proteins that stimulate a phosphatidylinositol-calcium second messenger system. Alternate start codons result in two isoforms of the protein.
BHMT	This gene encodes a cytosolic enzyme that catalyzes the conversion of betaine and homocysteine to dimethylglycine and methionine, respectively. Defects in this gene could lead to hyperhomocyst(e)inemia, but such a defect has not yet been observed.
BHMT2	Homocysteine is a sulfur-containing amino acid that plays a crucial role in methylation reactions. Transfer of the methyl group from betaine to homocysteine creates methionine, which donates the methyl group to methylate DNA, proteins, lipids, and other intracellular metabolites. The protein encoded by this gene is one of two methyl transferases that can catalyze the transfer of the methyl group from betaine to homocysteine. Anomalies in homocysteine metabolism have been implicated in disorders ranging from vascular disease to neural tube birth defects such as spina bifida. Alternatively spliced transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been found for this gene.
BID	This gene encodes a death agonist that heterodimerizes with either agonist BAX or antagonist BCL2. The encoded protein is a member of the BCL-2 family of cell death regulators. It is a mediator of mitochondrial damage induced by caspase-8 (CASP8); CASP8 cleaves this encoded protein, and the COOH-terminal part translocates to mitochondria where it triggers cytochrome c release. Multiple alternatively spliced transcript variants have been found, but the full-length nature of some variants has not been defined.
BIRC2	The protein encoded by this gene is a member of a family of proteins that inhibits apoptosis by binding to tumor necrosis factor receptor-associated factors TRAF1 and TRAF2, probably by interfering with activation of ICE-like proteases. This encoded protein inhibits apoptosis induced by serum deprivation and menadione, a potent inducer of free radicals. Alternatively spliced transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been found for this gene.
BIRC3	This gene encodes a member of the IAP family of proteins that inhibit apoptosis by binding to tumor necrosis factor receptor-associated factors TRAF1 and TRAF2, probably by interfering with activation of ICE-like proteases. The encoded protein inhibits apoptosis induced by serum deprivation but does not affect apoptosis resulting from exposure to menadione, a potent inducer of free radicals. It contains 3 baculovirus IAP repeats and a ring finger domain. Transcript variants encoding the same isoform have been identified.
BIRC5	This gene is a member of the inhibitor of apoptosis (IAP) gene family, which encode negative regulatory proteins that prevent apoptotic cell death. IAP family members usually contain multiple baculovirus IAP repeat (BIR) domains, but this gene encodes proteins with only a single BIR domain. The encoded proteins also lack a C-terminus RING finger domain. Gene expression is high during fetal development and in most tumors, yet low in adult tissues. Alternatively spliced transcript variants encoding distinct isoforms have been found for this gene.
BIRC7	This gene encodes a member of the inhibitor of apoptosis protein (IAP) family, and contains a single copy of a baculovirus IAP repeat (BIR) as well as a RING-type zinc finger domain. The BIR domain is essential for inhibitory activity and interacts with caspases, while the RING finger domain sometimes enhances antiapoptotic activity but does not inhibit apoptosis alone. Elevated levels of the encoded protein may be associated with cancer progression and play a role in chemotherapy sensitivity. Alternative splicing results in multiple transcript variants
BIRC8	Protects against apoptosis mediated by BAX.
BLK	This gene encodes a nonreceptor tyrosine-kinase of the src family of proto-oncogenes that are typically involved in cell proliferation and differentiation. The protein has a role in B-cell receptor signaling and B-cell development. The protein also stimulates insulin synthesis and secretion in response to glucose and enhances the expression of several pancreatic beta-cell transcription factors.
BLM	The Bloom syndrome gene product is related to the RecQ subset of DExH box-containing DNA helicases and has both DNA-stimulated ATPase and ATP-dependent DNA helicase activities. Mutations causing Bloom syndrome delete or alter helicase motifs and may disable the 3'-5' helicase activity.  The normal protein may act to suppress inappropriate recombination.
BMP1	This gene encodes a protein that is capable of inducing formation of cartilage in vivo. Although other bone morphogenetic proteins are members of the TGF-beta superfamily, this gene encodes a protein that is not closely related to other known growth factors. This gene is expressed as alternatively spliced variants that share an N-terminal protease domain but differ in their C-terminal region.
BMP10	This gene encodes a secreted ligand of the TGF-beta (transforming growth factor-beta) superfamily of proteins. Ligands of this family bind various TGF-beta receptors leading to recruitment and activation of SMAD family transcription factors that regulate gene expression. The encoded preproprotein is proteolytically processed to generate the mature protein, which binds to the activin receptor-like kinase 1 (ALK1) and plays important roles in cardiovascular development including cardiomyocyte proliferation and regulation of heart size, closure of the ductus arteriosus, angiogenesis and ventricular trabeculation.
BMP2	This gene encodes a secreted ligand of the TGF-beta (transforming growth factor-beta) superfamily of proteins. Ligands of this family bind various TGF-beta receptors leading to recruitment and activation of SMAD family transcription factors that regulate gene expression. The encoded preproprotein is proteolytically processed to generate each subunit of the disulfide-linked homodimer, which plays a role in bone and cartilage development. Duplication of a regulatory region downstream of this gene causes a form of brachydactyly characterized by a malformed index finger and second toe in human patients.
BMP2K	This gene is the human homolog of mouse BMP-2-inducible kinase. Bone morphogenic proteins (BMPs) play a key role in skeletal development and patterning. Expression of the mouse gene is increased during BMP-2 induced differentiation and the gene product is a putative serine/threonine protein kinase containing a nuclear localization signal. Therefore, the protein encoded by this human homolog is thought to be a protein kinase with a putative regulatory role in attenuating the program of osteoblast differentiation. Two transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been found for this gene.
BMP4	This gene encodes a secreted ligand of the TGF-beta (transforming growth factor-beta) superfamily of proteins. Ligands of this family bind various TGF-beta receptors leading to recruitment and activation of SMAD family transcription factors that regulate gene expression. The encoded preproprotein is proteolytically processed to generate each subunit of the disulfide-linked homodimer. This protein regulates heart development and adipogenesis. Mutations in this gene are associated with orofacial cleft and microphthalmia in human patients. The encoded protein may also be involved in the pathology of multiple cardiovascular diseases and human cancers.
BMP6	This gene encodes a secreted ligand of the TGF-beta (transforming growth factor-beta) superfamily of proteins. Ligands of this family bind various TGF-beta receptors leading to recruitment and activation of SMAD family transcription factors that regulate gene expression. The encoded preproprotein is proteolytically processed to generate each subunit of the disulfide-linked homodimer. This protein regulates a wide range of biological processes including iron homeostasis, fat and bone development, and ovulation. Differential expression of this gene may be associated with progression of breast and prostate cancer. Mutations in this gene may be associated with iron overload in human patients.
BMPR1A	The bone morphogenetic protein (BMP) receptors are a family of transmembrane serine/threonine kinases that include the type I receptors BMPR1A and BMPR1B and the type II receptor BMPR2. These receptors are also closely related to the activin receptors, ACVR1 and ACVR2. The ligands of these receptors are members of the TGF-beta superfamily. TGF-betas and activins transduce their signals through the formation of heteromeric complexes with 2 different types of serine (threonine) kinase receptors: type I receptors of about 50-55 kD and type II receptors of about 70-80 kD. Type II receptors bind ligands in the absence of type I receptors, but they require their respective type I receptors for signaling, whereas type I receptors require their respective type II receptors for ligand binding.
BMPR1B	This gene encodes a member of the bone morphogenetic protein (BMP) receptor family of transmembrane serine/threonine kinases. The ligands of this receptor are BMPs, which are members of the TGF-beta superfamily. BMPs are involved in endochondral bone formation and embryogenesis. These proteins transduce their signals through the formation of heteromeric complexes of 2 different types of serine (threonine) kinase receptors: type I receptors of about 50-55 kD and type II receptors of about 70-80 kD. Type II receptors bind ligands in the absence of type I receptors, but they require their respective type I receptors for signaling, whereas type I receptors require their respective type II receptors for ligand binding. Mutations in this gene have been associated with primary pulmonary hypertension. Several transcript variants encoding two different isoforms have been found for this gene.
BMPR2	This gene encodes a member of the bone morphogenetic protein (BMP) receptor family of transmembrane serine/threonine kinases. The ligands of this receptor are BMPs, which are members of the TGF-beta superfamily. BMPs are involved in endochondral bone formation and embryogenesis. These proteins transduce their signals through the formation of heteromeric complexes of two different types of serine (threonine) kinase receptors: type I receptors of about 50-55 kD and type II receptors of about 70-80 kD. Type II receptors bind ligands in the absence of type I receptors, but they require their respective type I receptors for signaling, whereas type I receptors require their respective type II receptors for ligand binding. Mutations in this gene have been associated with primary pulmonary hypertension, both familial and fenfluramine-associated, and with pulmonary venoocclusive disease.
BMX	This gene encodes a non-receptor tyrosine kinase belonging to the Tec kinase family. The protein contains a PH-like domain, which mediates membrane targeting by binding to phosphatidylinositol 3,4,5-triphosphate (PIP3), and a SH2 domain that binds to tyrosine-phosphorylated proteins and functions in signal transduction. The protein is implicated in several signal transduction pathways including the Stat pathway, and regulates differentiation and tumorigenicity of several types of cancer cells. Alternatively spliced transcript variants have been found for this gene.
BPHL	This gene encodes a member of the serine protease family of hydrolytic enzymes which contain a serine in their active site. The encoded protein may play a role in activation of the antiviral prodrug valacyclovir. Alternatively spliced transcript variants have been described.
BPTF	This gene was identified by the reactivity of its encoded protein to a monoclonal antibody prepared against brain homogenates from patients with Alzheimer's disease. Analysis of the original protein (fetal Alz-50 reactive clone 1, or FAC1), identified as an 810 aa protein containing a DNA-binding domain and a zinc finger motif, suggested it might play a role in the regulation of transcription. High levels of FAC1 were detected in fetal brain and in patients with neurodegenerative diseases. The protein encoded by this gene is actually much larger than originally thought, and it also contains a C-terminal bromodomain characteristic of proteins that regulate transcription during proliferation. The encoded protein is highly similar to the largest subunit of the Drosophila NURF (nucleosome remodeling factor) complex. In Drosophila, the NURF complex, which catalyzes nucleosome sliding on DNA and interacts with sequence-specific transcription factors, is necessary for the chromatin remodeling required for transcription. Two alternative transcripts encoding different isoforms have been described completely.
BRAF	This gene encodes a protein belonging to the RAF family of serine/threonine protein kinases. This protein plays a role in regulating the MAP kinase/ERK signaling pathway, which affects cell division, differentiation, and secretion. Mutations in this gene, most commonly the V600E mutation, are the most frequently identified cancer-causing mutations in melanoma, and have been identified in various other cancers as well, including non-Hodgkin lymphoma, colorectal cancer, thyroid carcinoma, non-small cell lung carcinoma, hairy cell leukemia and adenocarcinoma of lung. Mutations in this gene are also associated with cardiofaciocutaneous, Noonan, and Costello syndromes, which exhibit overlapping phenotypes. A pseudogene of this gene has been identified on the X chromosome.
BRCA1	This gene encodes a nuclear phosphoprotein that plays a role in maintaining genomic stability, and it also acts as a tumor suppressor. The encoded protein combines with other tumor suppressors, DNA damage sensors, and signal transducers to form a large multi-subunit protein complex known as the BRCA1-associated genome surveillance complex (BASC). This gene product associates with RNA polymerase II, and through the C-terminal domain, also interacts with histone deacetylase complexes. This protein thus plays a role in transcription, DNA repair of double-stranded breaks, and recombination. Mutations in this gene are responsible for approximately 40% of inherited breast cancers and more than 80% of inherited breast and ovarian cancers. Alternative splicing plays a role in modulating the subcellular localization and physiological function of this gene. Many alternatively spliced transcript variants, some of which are disease-associated mutations, have been described for this gene, but the full-length natures of only some of these variants has been described. A related pseudogene, which is also located on chromosome 17, has been identified.
BRD1	This gene encodes a bromodomain-containing protein that localizes to the nucleus and can interact with DNA and histone tails. The encoded protein is a component of the MOZ/MORF acetyltransferase complex and can stimulate acetylation of histones H3 and H4, thereby potentially playing a role in gene activation. Variation in this gene is associated with schizophrenia and bipolar disorder in some study populations. Alternative splicing results in multiple transcript variants.
BRD2	This gene encodes a transcriptional regulator that belongs to the BET (bromodomains and extra terminal domain) family of proteins. This protein associates with transcription complexes and with acetylated chromatin during mitosis, and it selectively binds to the acetylated lysine-12 residue of histone H4 via its two bromodomains. The gene maps to the major histocompatability complex (MHC) class II region on chromosome 6p21.3, but sequence comparison suggests that the protein is not involved in the immune response. This gene has been implicated in juvenile myoclonic epilepsy, a common form of epilepsy that becomes apparent in adolescence. Multiple alternatively spliced variants have been described for this gene.
BRD3	This gene was identified based on its homology to the gene encoding the RING3 protein, a serine/threonine kinase. The gene localizes to 9q34, a region which contains several major histocompatibility complex (MHC) genes. The function of the encoded protein is not known.
BRD4	The protein encoded by this gene is homologous to the murine protein MCAP, which associates with chromosomes during mitosis, and to the human RING3 protein, a serine/threonine kinase. Each of these proteins contains two bromodomains, a conserved sequence motif which may be involved in chromatin targeting. This gene has been implicated as the chromosome 19 target of translocation t(15;19)(q13;p13.1), which defines an upper respiratory tract carcinoma in young people. Two alternatively spliced transcript variants have been described.
BRD7	This gene encodes a protein which is a member of the bromodomain-containing protein family. The product of this gene has been identified as a component of one form of the SWI/SNF chromatin remodeling complex, and as a protein which interacts with p53 and is required for p53-dependent oncogene-induced senescence which prevents tumor growth. Pseudogenes have been described on chromosomes 2, 3, 6, 13 and 14. Alternative splicing results in multiple transcript variants.
BRD8	The protein encoded by this gene interacts with thyroid hormone receptor in a ligand-dependent manner and enhances thyroid hormone-dependent activation from thyroid response elements. This protein contains a bromodomain and is thought to be a nuclear receptor coactivator. Multiple alternatively spliced transcript variants that encode distinct isoforms have been identified.
BRD9	Plays a role in chromatin remodeling and regulation of transcription .
BRDT	BRDT is similar to the RING3 protein family. It possesses 2 bromodomain motifs and a PEST sequence (a cluster of proline, glutamic acid, serine, and threonine residues), characteristic of proteins that undergo rapid intracellular degradation. The bromodomain is found in proteins that regulate transcription. Several transcript variants encoding multiple isoforms have been found for this gene.
BRK1	Involved in regulation of actin and microtubule organization. Part of a WAVE complex that activates the Arp2/3 complex. As component of the WAVE1 complex, required for BDNF-NTRK2 endocytic trafficking and signaling from early endosomes (By similarity).
BRPF1	This gene encodes a bromodomain, PHD finger and chromo/Tudor-related Pro-Trp-Trp-Pro (PWWP) domain containing protein. The encoded protein is a component of the MOZ/MORF histone acetyltransferase complexes which function as a transcriptional regulators. This protein binds to the catalytic MYST domains of the MOZ and MORF proteins and may play a role in stimulating acetyltransferase and transcriptional activity of the complex. Alternative splicing results in multiple transcript variants.
BRPF3	Component of the MOZ/MORF complex which has a histone H3 acetyltransferase activity.
BRS3	The protein encoded by this gene is a G protein-coupled membrane receptor that binds bombesin-like peptides. This binding results in activation of a phosphatidylinositol-calcium second messenger system, with physiological effects including regulation of metabolic rate, glucose metabolism, and hypertension.
BRSK1	Serine/threonine-protein kinase that plays a key role in polarization of neurons and centrosome duplication. Phosphorylates CDC25B, CDC25C, MAPT/TAU, RIMS1, TUBG1, TUBG2 and WEE1. Following phosphorylation and activation by STK11/LKB1, acts as a key regulator of polarization of cortical neurons, probably by mediating phosphorylation of microtubule-associated proteins such as MAPT/TAU at 'Thr-529' and 'Ser-579'. Also regulates neuron polarization by mediating phosphorylation of WEE1 at 'Ser-642' in post-mitotic neurons, leading to down-regulate WEE1 activity in polarized neurons. In neurons, localizes to synaptic vesicles and plays a role in neurotransmitter release, possibly by phosphorylating RIMS1. Also acts as a positive regulator of centrosome duplication by mediating phosphorylation of gamma-tubulin (TUBG1 and TUBG2) at 'Ser-131', leading to translocation of gamma-tubulin and its associated proteins to the centrosome. Involved in the UV-induced DNA damage checkpoint response, probably by inhibiting CDK1 activity through phosphorylation and activation of WEE1, and inhibition of CDC25B and CDC25C.
BRSK2	Serine/threonine-protein kinase that plays a key role in polarization of neurons and axonogenesis, cell cycle progress and insulin secretion. Phosphorylates CDK16, CDC25C, MAPT/TAU, PAK1 and WEE1. Following phosphorylation and activation by STK11/LKB1, acts as a key regulator of polarization of cortical neurons, probably by mediating phosphorylation of microtubule-associated proteins such as MAPT/TAU at 'Thr-529' and 'Ser-579'. Also regulates neuron polarization by mediating phosphorylation of WEE1 at 'Ser-642' in postmitotic neurons, leading to down-regulate WEE1 activity in polarized neurons. Plays a role in the regulation of the mitotic cell cycle progress and the onset of mitosis. Plays a role in the regulation of insulin secretion in response to elevated glucose levels, probably via phosphorylation of CDK16 and PAK1. While BRSK2 phosphorylated at Thr-174 can inhibit insulin secretion  stress.
BRWD1	This gene encodes a member of the WD repeat protein family. WD repeats are minimally conserved regions of approximately 40 amino acids typically bracketed by gly-his and trp-asp (GH-WD) residues which may facilitate formation of heterotrimeric or multiprotein complexes. Members of this family are involved in a variety of cellular processes including cell cycle progression, signal transduction, apoptosis, and gene regulation. This protein contains 2 bromodomains and multiple WD repeats. This gene is located within the Down syndrome region-2 on chromosome 21. Alternative splicing of this gene generates multiple transcript variants encoding distinct isoforms. In mouse, this gene encodes a nuclear protein that has a polyglutamine-containing region that functions as a transcriptional activation domain which may regulate chromatin remodelling and associates with a component of the SWI/SNF chromatin remodelling complex.
BRWD3	The protein encoded by this gene contains a bromodomain and several WD repeats. It is thought to have a chromatin-modifying function, and may thus play a role in transcription. Mutations in this gene are associated with a spectrum of cognitive disabilities and X-linked macrocephaly. This gene is also associated with translocations in patients with B-cell chronic lymphocytic leukemia.
BSG	The protein encoded by this gene is a plasma membrane protein that is important in spermatogenesis, embryo implantation, neural network formation, and tumor progression. The encoded protein is also a member of the immunoglobulin superfamily. Multiple transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been found for this gene.
BTK	The protein encoded by this gene plays a crucial role in B-cell development. Mutations in this gene cause X-linked agammaglobulinemia type 1, which is an immunodeficiency characterized by the failure to produce mature B lymphocytes, and associated with a failure of Ig heavy chain rearrangement. Alternative splicing results in multiple transcript variants encoding different isoforms.
BUB1	This gene encodes a serine/threonine-protein kinase that play a central role in mitosis. The encoded protein functions in part by phosphorylating members of the mitotic checkpoint complex and activating the spindle checkpoint. This protein also plays a role in inhibiting the activation of the anaphase promoting complex/cyclosome. This protein may also function in the DNA damage response. Mutations in this gene have been associated with aneuploidy and several forms of cancer. Alternate splicing results in multiple transcript variants.
C1GALT1	The protein encoded by this gene generates the common core 1 O-glycan structure, Gal-beta-1-3GalNAc-R, by the transfer of Gal from UDP-Gal to GalNAc-alpha-1-R. Core 1 is a precursor for many extended mucin-type O-glycans on cell surface and secreted glycoproteins. Studies in mice suggest that this gene plays a key role in thrombopoiesis and kidney homeostasis.
C1R	This gene encodes a member of the peptidase S1 protein family. The encoded protein is a proteolytic subunit in the complement system C1 complex. The complement system acts as a mediator in the innate immune response by ultimately triggering phagocytosis, inflammation, and rupturing the bacterial cell wall. Mutations in this gene are associated with Ehlers-Danlos Syndrome.
C1S	This gene encodes a serine protease, which is a major constituent of the human complement subcomponent C1. C1s associates with two other complement components C1r and C1q in order to yield the first component of the serum complement system. Defects in this gene are the cause of selective C1s deficiency.
C3	Complement component C3 plays a central role in the activation of complement system. Its activation is required for both classical and alternative complement activation pathways. The encoded preproprotein is proteolytically processed to generate alpha and beta subunits that form the mature protein, which is then further processed to generate numerous peptide products. The C3a peptide, also known as the C3a anaphylatoxin, modulates inflammation and possesses antimicrobial activity. Mutations in this gene are associated with atypical hemolytic uremic syndrome and age-related macular degeneration in human patients.
C3AR1	C3a is an anaphylatoxin released during activation of the complement system. The protein encoded by this gene is an orphan G protein-coupled receptor for C3a. Binding of C3a by the encoded receptor activates chemotaxis, granule enzyme release, superoxide anion production, and bacterial opsonization.
C5	This gene encodes a component of the complement system, a part of the innate immune system that plays an important role in inflammation, host homeostasis, and host defense against pathogens. The encoded preproprotein is proteolytically processed to generate multiple protein products, including the C5 alpha chain, C5 beta chain, C5a anaphylatoxin and C5b. The C5 protein is comprised of the C5 alpha and beta chains, which are linked by a disulfide bridge. Cleavage of the alpha chain by a convertase enzyme results in the formation of the C5a anaphylatoxin, which possesses potent spasmogenic and chemotactic activity, and the C5b macromolecular cleavage product, a subunit of the membrane attack complex (MAC). Mutations in this gene cause complement component 5 deficiency, a disease characterized by recurrent bacterial infections. Alternative splicing results in multiple transcript variants.
C5AR1	Receptor for the chemotactic and inflammatory peptide anaphylatoxin C5a .
CA1	Carbonic anhydrases (CAs) are a large family of zinc metalloenzymes that catalyze the reversible hydration of carbon dioxide. They participate in a variety of biological processes, including respiration, calcification, acid-base balance, bone resorption, and the formation of aqueous humor, cerebrospinal fluid, saliva and gastric acid. They show extensive diversity in tissue distribution and in their subcellular localization. This CA1 gene is closely linked to the CA2 and CA3 genes on chromosome 8. It encodes a cytosolic protein that is found at the highest level in erythrocytes. Allelic variants of this gene have been described in some populations. Alternative splicing and the use of alternative promoters results in multiple transcript variants.
CA12	Carbonic anhydrases (CAs) are a large family of zinc metalloenzymes that catalyze the reversible hydration of carbon dioxide. They participate in a variety of biological processes, including respiration, calcification, acid-base balance, bone resorption, and the formation of aqueous humor, cerebrospinal fluid, saliva, and gastric acid. This gene product is a type I membrane protein that is highly expressed in normal tissues, such as kidney, colon and pancreas, and has been found to be overexpressed in 10% of clear cell renal carcinomas. Three transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been identified for this gene.
CA13	Carbonic anhydrases (CAs) are a family of zinc metalloenzymes. For background information on the CA family, see MIM 114800.
CA14	 Carbonic anhydrases (CAs) are a large family of zinc metalloenzymes that catalyze the reversible hydration of carbon dioxide.  They participate in a variety of biological processes, including respiration, calcification, acid-base balance, bone resorption, and the formation of aqueous humor, cerebrospinal fluid, saliva, and gastric acid.  They show extensive diversity in tissue distribution and in their subcellular localization.  CA XIV is predicted to be a type I membrane protein and shares highest sequence similarity with the other transmembrane CA isoform, CA XII; however, they have different patterns of tissue-specific expression and thus may play different physiologic roles.
CA2	The protein encoded by this gene is one of several isozymes of carbonic anhydrase, which catalyzes reversible hydration of carbon dioxide. Defects in this enzyme are associated with osteopetrosis and renal tubular acidosis. Two transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been found for this gene.
CA3	Carbonic anhydrase III (CAIII) is a member of a multigene family (at least six separate genes are known) that encodes carbonic anhydrase isozymes. These carbonic anhydrases are a class of metalloenzymes that catalyze the reversible hydration of carbon dioxide and are differentially expressed in a number of cell types. The expression of the CA3 gene is strictly tissue specific and present at high levels in skeletal muscle and much lower levels in cardiac and smooth muscle. A proportion of carriers of Duchenne muscle dystrophy have a higher CA3 level than normal. The gene spans 10.3 kb and contains seven exons and six introns.
CA4	Carbonic anhydrases (CAs) are a large family of zinc metalloenzymes that catalyze the reversible hydration of carbon dioxide. They participate in a variety of biological processes, including respiration, calcification, acid-base balance, bone resorption, and the formation of aqueous humor, cerebrospinal fluid, saliva, and gastric acid. They show extensive diversity in tissue distribution and in their subcellular localization. This gene encodes a glycosylphosphatidyl-inositol-anchored membrane isozyme expressed on the luminal surfaces of pulmonary (and certain other) capillaries and proximal renal tubules. Its exact function is not known; however, it may have a role in inherited renal abnormalities of bicarbonate transport.
CA5A	 Carbonic anhydrases (CAs) are a large family of zinc metalloenzymes that catalyze the reversible hydration of carbon dioxide.  They participate in a variety of biological processes, including respiration, calcification, acid-base balance, bone resorption, and the formation of aqueous humor, cerebrospinal fluid, saliva, and gastric acid.  They show extensive diversity in tissue distribution and in their subcellular localization.  CA VA is localized in the mitochondria and expressed primarily in the liver.  It may play an important role in ureagenesis and gluconeogenesis.  CA5A gene maps to chromosome 16q24.3 and an unprocessed pseudogene has been assigned to 16p12-p11.2.
CA5B	Carbonic anhydrases (CAs) are a large family of zinc metalloenzymes that catalyze the reversible hydration of carbon dioxide. They participate in a variety of biological processes, including respiration, calcification, acid-base balance, bone resorption, and the formation of aqueous humor, cerebrospinal fluid, saliva, and gastric acid. They show extensive diversity in tissue distribution and in their subcellular localization. This gene encodes carbonic anhydrase 5B. CA5B, and the related CA5A gene, has its expression localized in the mitochondria though CA5B has a wider tissue distribution than CA5A, which is restricted to the liver, kidneys, and skeletal muscle. A carbonic anhydrase pseudogene (CA5BP1) is adjacent to the CA5B gene and these two loci produce CA5BP1-CA5B readthrough transcripts.
CA6	The protein encoded by this gene is one of several isozymes of carbonic anhydrase. This protein is found only in salivary glands and saliva and protein may play a role in the reversible hydratation of carbon dioxide though its function in saliva is unknown.
CA7	Carbonic anhydrases are a large family of zinc metalloenzymes that catalyze the reversible hydration of carbon dioxide. They participate in a variety of biological processes, including respiration, calcification, acid-base balance, bone resorption, and the formation of aqueous humor, cerebrospinal fluid, saliva, and gastric acid. They show extensive diversity in tissue distribution and in their subcellular localization. The cytosolic protein encoded by this gene is predominantly expressed in the brain and contributes to bicarbonate driven GABAergic neuron excitation. Alternative splicing in the coding region results in multiple transcript variants encoding different isoforms.
CA9	Carbonic anhydrases (CAs) are a large family of zinc metalloenzymes that catalyze the reversible hydration of carbon dioxide. They participate in a variety of biological processes, including respiration, calcification, acid-base balance, bone resorption, and the formation of aqueous humor, cerebrospinal fluid, saliva, and gastric acid. They show extensive diversity in tissue distribution and in their subcellular localization. CA IX is a transmembrane protein and is one of only two tumor-associated carbonic anhydrase isoenzymes known. It is expressed in all clear-cell renal cell carcinoma, but is not detected in normal kidney or most other normal tissues. It may be involved in cell proliferation and transformation. This gene was mapped to 17q21.2 by fluorescence in situ hybridization, however, radiation hybrid mapping localized it to 9p13-p12.
CACNA1A	Voltage-dependent calcium channels mediate the entry of calcium ions into excitable cells, and are also involved in a variety of calcium-dependent processes, including muscle contraction, hormone or neurotransmitter release, and gene expression. Calcium channels are multisubunit complexes composed of alpha-1, beta, alpha-2/delta, and gamma subunits. The channel activity is directed by the pore-forming alpha-1 subunit, whereas, the others act as auxiliary subunits regulating this activity. The distinctive properties of the calcium channel types are related primarily to the expression of a variety of alpha-1 isoforms, alpha-1A, B, C, D, E, and S. This gene encodes the alpha-1A subunit, which is predominantly expressed in neuronal tissue. Mutations in this gene are associated with 2 neurologic disorders, familial hemiplegic migraine and episodic ataxia 2. This gene also exhibits polymorphic variation due to (CAG)n-repeats. Multiple transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been found for this gene. In one set of transcript variants, the (CAG)n-repeats occur in the 3' UTR, and are not associated with any disease. But in another set of variants, an insertion extends the coding region to include the (CAG)n-repeats which encode a polyglutamine tract. Expansion of the (CAG)n-repeats from the normal 4-18 to 21-33 in the coding region is associated with spinocerebellar ataxia 6.
CACNA1B	The protein encoded by this gene is the pore-forming subunit of an N-type voltage-dependent calcium channel, which controls neurotransmitter release from neurons. The encoded protein forms a complex with alpha-2, beta, and delta subunits to form the high-voltage activated channel. This channel is sensitive to omega-conotoxin-GVIA and omega-agatoxin-IIIA but insensitive to dihydropyridines. Two transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been found for this gene.
CACNA1C	This gene encodes an alpha-1 subunit of a voltage-dependent calcium channel. Calcium channels mediate the influx of calcium ions into the cell upon membrane polarization. The alpha-1 subunit consists of 24 transmembrane segments and forms the pore through which ions pass into the cell. The calcium channel consists of a complex of alpha-1, alpha-2/delta, beta, and gamma subunits in a 1:1:1:1 ratio. There are multiple isoforms of each of these proteins, either encoded by different genes or the result of alternative splicing of transcripts. The protein encoded by this gene binds to and is inhibited by dihydropyridine. Alternative splicing results in many transcript variants encoding different proteins. Some of the predicted proteins may not produce functional ion channel subunits.
CACNA1D	Voltage-dependent calcium channels mediate the entry of calcium ions into excitable cells, and are also involved in a variety of calcium-dependent processes, including muscle contraction, hormone or neurotransmitter release, and gene expression. Calcium channels are multisubunit complexes composed of alpha-1, beta, alpha-2/delta, and gamma subunits. The channel activity is directed by the pore-forming alpha-1 subunit, whereas the others act as auxiliary subunits regulating this activity. The distinctive properties of the calcium channel types are related primarily to the expression of a variety of alpha-1 isoforms, namely alpha-1A, B, C, D, E, and S. This gene encodes the alpha-1D subunit. Several transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been found for this gene.
CACNA1E	Voltage-dependent calcium channels are multisubunit complexes consisting of alpha-1, alpha-2, beta, and delta subunits in a 1:1:1:1 ratio. These channels mediate the entry of calcium ions into excitable cells, and are also involved in a variety of calcium-dependent processes, including muscle contraction, hormone or neurotransmitter release, gene expression, cell motility, cell division and cell death. This gene encodes the alpha-1E subunit of the R-type calcium channels, which belong to the 'high-voltage activated' group that maybe involved in the modulation of firing patterns of neurons important for information processing. Alternatively spliced transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been described for this gene.
CACNA1F	This gene encodes a multipass transmembrane protein that functions as an alpha-1 subunit of the voltage-dependent calcium channel, which mediates the influx of calcium ions into the cell. The encoded protein forms a complex of alpha-1, alpha-2/delta, beta, and gamma subunits in a 1:1:1:1 ratio. Mutations in this gene can cause X-linked eye disorders, including congenital stationary night blindness type 2A, cone-rod dystropy, and Aland Island eye disease. Alternatively spliced transcript variants encoding multiple isoforms have been observed.
CACNA1G	Voltage-sensitive calcium channels mediate the entry of calcium ions into excitable cells, and are also involved in a variety of calcium-dependent processes, including muscle contraction, hormone or neurotransmitter release, gene expression, cell motility, cell division, and cell death. This gene encodes a T-type, low-voltage activated calcium channel. The T-type channels generate currents that are both transient, owing to fast inactivation, and tiny, owing to small conductance. T-type channels are thought to be involved in pacemaker activity, low-threshold calcium spikes, neuronal oscillations and resonance, and rebound burst firing. Many alternatively spliced transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been described for this gene.
CACNA1H	This gene encodes a T-type member of the alpha-1 subunit family, a protein in the voltage-dependent calcium channel complex. Calcium channels mediate the influx of calcium ions into the cell upon membrane polarization and consist of a complex of alpha-1, alpha-2/delta, beta, and gamma subunits in a 1:1:1:1 ratio. The alpha-1 subunit has 24 transmembrane segments and forms the pore through which ions pass into the cell. There are multiple isoforms of each of the proteins in the complex, either encoded by different genes or the result of alternative splicing of transcripts. Alternate transcriptional splice variants, encoding different isoforms, have been characterized for the gene described here. Studies suggest certain mutations in this gene lead to childhood absence epilepsy (CAE).
CACNA1I	This gene encodes the pore-forming alpha subunit of a voltage gated calcium channel. The encoded protein is a member of a subfamily of calcium channels referred to as is a low voltage-activated, T-type, calcium channel. The channel encoded by this protein is characterized by a slower activation and inactivation compared to other T-type calcium channels. This protein may be involved in calcium signaling in neurons. Alternate splicing results in multiple transcript variants.
CACNA1S	This gene encodes one of the five subunits of the slowly inactivating L-type voltage-dependent calcium channel in skeletal muscle cells. Mutations in this gene have been associated with hypokalemic periodic paralysis, thyrotoxic periodic paralysis and malignant hyperthermia susceptibility.
CACNA2D1	The preproprotein encoded by this gene is cleaved into multiple chains that comprise the alpha-2 and delta subunits of the voltage-dependent calcium channel complex. Calcium channels mediate the influx of calcium ions into the cell upon membrane polarization. Mutations in this gene can cause cardiac deficiencies, including Brugada syndrome and short QT syndrome. Alternate splicing results in multiple transcript variants, some of which may lack the delta subunit portion.
CACNA2D2	Calcium channels mediate the entry of calcium ions into the cell upon membrane polarization. This gene encodes the alpha-2/delta subunit of the voltage-dependent calcium channel complex. The complex consists of the main channel-forming subunit alpha-1, and auxiliary subunits alpha-2/delta, beta, and gamma. The auxiliary subunits function in the assembly and membrane localization of the complex, and modulate calcium currents and channel activation/inactivation kinetics. The subunit encoded by this gene undergoes post-translational cleavage to yield the extracellular alpha2 peptide and a membrane-anchored delta polypeptide. This subunit is a receptor for the antiepileptic drug, gabapentin. Mutations in this gene are associated with early infantile epileptic encephalopathy. Single nucleotide polymorphisms in this gene are correlated with increased sensitivity to opioid drugs. Alternative splicing results in multiple transcript variants encoding different isoforms.
CACNB2	This gene encodes a subunit of a voltage-dependent calcium channel protein that is a member of the voltage-gated calcium channel superfamily. The gene product was originally identified as an antigen target in Lambert-Eaton myasthenic syndrome, an autoimmune disorder. Mutations in this gene are associated with Brugada syndrome. Alternatively spliced variants encoding different isoforms have been described.
CACNB3	This gene encodes a regulatory beta subunit of the voltage-dependent calcium channel. Beta subunits are composed of five domains, which contribute to the regulation of surface expression and gating of calcium channels and may also play a role in the regulation of transcription factors and calcium transport.
CACNB4	This gene encodes a member of the beta subunit family of voltage-dependent calcium channel complex proteins. Calcium channels mediate the influx of calcium ions into the cell upon membrane polarization and consist of a complex of alpha-1, alpha-2/delta, beta, and gamma subunits in a 1:1:1:1 ratio. Various versions of each of these subunits exist, either expressed from similar genes or the result of alternative splicing. The protein encoded by this locus plays an important role in calcium channel function by modulating G protein inhibition, increasing peak calcium current, controlling the alpha-1 subunit membrane targeting and shifting the voltage dependence of activation and inactivation. Certain mutations in this gene have been associated with idiopathic generalized epilepsy (IGE), juvenile myoclonic epilepsy (JME), and episodic ataxia, type 5.
CAD	The de novo synthesis of pyrimidine nucleotides is required for mammalian cells to proliferate. This gene encodes a trifunctional protein which is associated with the enzymatic activities of the first 3 enzymes in the 6-step pathway of pyrimidine biosynthesis: carbamoylphosphate synthetase (CPS II), aspartate transcarbamoylase, and dihydroorotase. This protein is regulated by the mitogen-activated protein kinase (MAPK) cascade, which indicates a direct link between activation of the MAPK cascade and de novo biosynthesis of pyrimidine nucleotides. Alternative splicing results in multiple transcript variants encoding different isoforms.
CALCA	This gene encodes the peptide hormones calcitonin, calcitonin gene-related peptide and katacalcin by tissue-specific alternative RNA splicing of the gene transcripts and cleavage of inactive precursor proteins. Calcitonin is involved in calcium regulation and acts to regulate phosphorus metabolism. Calcitonin gene-related peptide functions as a vasodilator and as an antimicrobial peptide while katacalcin is a calcium-lowering peptide. Multiple transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been found for this gene.
CALCR	This gene encodes a high affinity receptor for the peptide hormone calcitonin and belongs to a subfamily of seven transmembrane-spanning G protein-coupled receptors. The encoded protein is involved in maintaining calcium homeostasis and in regulating osteoclast-mediated bone resorption. Polymorphisms in this gene have been associated with variations in bone mineral density and onset of osteoporosis. Alternate splicing results in multiple transcript variants.
CALCRL	Receptor for calcitonin-gene-related peptide (CGRP) together with RAMP1 and receptor for adrenomedullin together with RAMP3 (By similarity). Receptor for adrenomedullin together with RAMP2. The activity of this receptor is mediated by G proteins which activate adenylyl cyclase.
CALM1	This gene encodes a member of the EF-hand calcium-binding protein family. It is one of three genes which encode an identical calcium binding protein which is one of the four subunits of phosphorylase kinase. Two pseudogenes have been identified on chromosome 7 and X. Multiple transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been found for this gene.
CAMK1	Calcium/calmodulin-dependent protein kinase I is expressed in many tissues and is a component of a calmodulin-dependent protein kinase cascade.  Calcium/calmodulin directly activates calcium/calmodulin-dependent protein kinase I by binding to the enzyme and indirectly promotes the phosphorylation and synergistic activation of the enzyme by calcium/calmodulin-dependent protein kinase I kinase.
CAMK1D	This gene is a member of the calcium/calmodulin-dependent protein kinase 1 family, a subfamily of the serine/threonine kinases. The encoded protein is a component of the calcium-regulated calmodulin-dependent protein kinase cascade. It has been associated with multiple processes including regulation of granulocyte function, activation of CREB-dependent gene transcription, aldosterone synthesis, differentiation and activation of neutrophil cells, and apoptosis of erythroleukemia cells. Alternatively spliced transcript variants encoding different isoforms of this gene have been described.
CAMK1G	This gene encodes a protein similar to calcium/calmodulin dependent protein kinase, however, its exact function is not known.
CAMK2A	The product of this gene belongs to the serine/threonine protein kinases family, and to the Ca(2+)/calmodulin-dependent protein kinases subfamily. Calcium signaling is crucial for several aspects of plasticity at glutamatergic synapses. This calcium calmodulin-dependent protein kinase is composed of four different chains: alpha, beta, gamma, and delta. The alpha chain encoded by this gene is required for hippocampal long-term potentiation (LTP) and spatial learning. In addition to its calcium-calmodulin (CaM)-dependent activity, this protein can undergo autophosphorylation, resulting in CaM-independent activity. Several transcript variants encoding distinct isoforms have been identified for this gene.
CAMK2B	The product of this gene belongs to the serine/threonine protein kinase family and to the Ca(2+)/calmodulin-dependent protein kinase subfamily. Calcium signaling is crucial for several aspects of plasticity at glutamatergic synapses. In mammalian cells, the enzyme is composed of four different chains: alpha, beta, gamma, and delta. The product of this gene is a beta chain. It is possible that distinct isoforms of this chain have different cellular localizations and interact differently with calmodulin. Alternative splicing results in multiple transcript variants.
CAMK2D	The product of this gene belongs to the serine/threonine protein kinase family and to the Ca(2+)/calmodulin-dependent protein kinase subfamily. Calcium signaling is crucial for several aspects of plasticity at glutamatergic synapses. In mammalian cells, the enzyme is composed of four different chains: alpha, beta, gamma, and delta. The product of this gene is a delta chain. Alternative splicing results in multiple transcript variants encoding distinct isoforms. Distinct isoforms of this chain have different expression patterns.
CAMK2G	The product of this gene is one of the four subunits of an enzyme which belongs to the serine/threonine protein kinase family, and to the Ca(2+)/calmodulin-dependent protein kinase subfamily. Calcium signaling is crucial for several aspects of plasticity at glutamatergic synapses. In mammalian cells the enzyme is composed of four different chains: alpha, beta, gamma, and delta. The product of this gene is a gamma chain. Many alternatively spliced transcripts encoding different isoforms have been described but the full-length nature of all the variants has not been determined.
CAMK4	The product of this gene belongs to the serine/threonine protein kinase family, and to the Ca(2+)/calmodulin-dependent protein kinase subfamily. This enzyme is a multifunctional serine/threonine protein kinase with limited tissue distribution, that has been implicated in transcriptional regulation in lymphocytes, neurons and male germ cells.
CAMKK1	The product of this gene belongs to the Serine/Threonine protein kinase family, and to the Ca(2+)/calmodulin-dependent protein kinase subfamily. This protein plays a role in the calcium/calmodulin-dependent (CaM) kinase cascade. Three transcript variants encoding two distinct isoforms have been identified for this gene.
CAMKK2	The product of this gene belongs to the Serine/Threonine protein kinase family, and to the Ca(2+)/calmodulin-dependent protein kinase subfamily. The major isoform of this gene plays a role in the calcium/calmodulin-dependent (CaM) kinase cascade by phosphorylating the downstream kinases CaMK1 and CaMK4. Protein products of this gene also phosphorylate AMP-activated protein kinase (AMPK). This gene has its strongest expression in the brain and influences signalling cascades involved with learning and memory, neuronal differentiation and migration, neurite outgrowth, and synapse formation. Alternative splicing results in multiple transcript variants encoding distinct isoforms. The identified isoforms differ in their ability to undergo autophosphorylation and to phosphorylate downstream kinases.
CANX	This gene encodes a member of the calnexin family of molecular chaperones. The encoded protein is a calcium-binding, endoplasmic reticulum (ER)-associated protein that interacts transiently with newly synthesized N-linked glycoproteins, facilitating protein folding and assembly. It may also play a central role in the quality control of protein folding by retaining incorrectly folded protein subunits within the ER for degradation. Alternatively spliced transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been described.
CAPN1	The calpains, calcium-activated neutral proteases, are nonlysosomal, intracellular cysteine proteases. The mammalian calpains include ubiquitous, stomach-specific, and muscle-specific proteins. The ubiquitous enzymes consist of heterodimers with distinct large, catalytic subunits associated with a common small, regulatory subunit. This gene encodes the large subunit of the ubiquitous enzyme, calpain 1. Several transcript variants encoding two different isoforms have been found for this gene.
CAPN2	The calpains, calcium-activated neutral proteases, are nonlysosomal, intracellular cysteine proteases. The mammalian calpains include ubiquitous, stomach-specific, and muscle-specific proteins. The ubiquitous enzymes consist of heterodimers with distinct large, catalytic subunits associated with a common small, regulatory subunit. This gene encodes the large subunit of the ubiquitous enzyme, calpain 2. Multiple heterogeneous transcriptional start sites in the 5' UTR have been reported. Two transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been found for this gene.
CAPNS1	This gene is a member of the calpain small subunit family. Calpains are calcium-dependent cysteine proteinases that are widely distributed in mammalian cells. Calpains operate as heterodimers, comprising a specific large catalytic subunit (calpain 1 subunit in Calpain I, and calpain 2 subunit in Calpain II), and a common small regulatory subunit encoded by this gene. This encoded protein is essential for the stability and function of both calpain heterodimers, whose proteolytic activities influence various cellular functions including apoptosis, proliferation, migration, adhesion, and autophagy. Calpains have been implicated in neurodegenerative processes, such as myotonic dystrophy. A pseudogene of this gene has been defined on chromosome 1. Alternative splicing results in multiple transcript variants.
CARM1	This gene belongs to the protein arginine methyltransferase (PRMT) family. The encoded enzyme catalyzes the methylation of guanidino nitrogens of arginyl residues of proteins. The enzyme acts specifically on histones and other chromatin-associated proteins and is involved in regulation of gene expression. The enzyme may act in association with other proteins or within multi-protein complexes and may play a role in cell type-specific functions and cell lineage specification. A related pseudogene is located on chromosome 9.
CASK	This gene encodes a calcium/calmodulin-dependent serine protein kinase. The encoded protein is a MAGUK (membrane-associated guanylate kinase) protein family member. These proteins are scaffold proteins and the encoded protein is located at synapses in the brain. Mutations in this gene are associated with FG syndrome 4, intellectual disability and microcephaly with pontine and cerebellar hypoplasia, and a form of X-linked intellectual disability. Multiple transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been found for this gene.
CASP1	This gene encodes a protein which is a member of the cysteine-aspartic acid protease (caspase) family. Sequential activation of caspases plays a central role in the execution-phase of cell apoptosis. Caspases exist as inactive proenzymes which undergo proteolytic processing at conserved aspartic residues to produce 2 subunits, large and small, that dimerize to form the active enzyme. This gene was identified by its ability to proteolytically cleave and activate the inactive precursor of interleukin-1, a cytokine involved in the processes such as inflammation, septic shock, and wound healing. This gene has been shown to induce cell apoptosis and may function in various developmental stages. Studies of a similar gene in mouse suggest a role in the pathogenesis of Huntington disease. Alternative splicing results in transcript variants encoding distinct isoforms.
CASP10	This gene encodes a protein which is a member of the cysteine-aspartic acid protease (caspase) family. Sequential activation of caspases plays a central role in the execution-phase of cell apoptosis. Caspases exist as inactive proenzymes which undergo proteolytic processing at conserved aspartic residues to produce two subunits, large and small, that dimerize to form the active enzyme. This protein cleaves and activates caspases 3 and 7, and the protein itself is processed by caspase 8. Mutations in this gene are associated with type IIA autoimmune lymphoproliferative syndrome, non-Hodgkin lymphoma and gastric cancer. Alternatively spliced transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been described for this gene.
CASP14	This gene encodes a member of the cysteine-aspartic acid protease (caspase) family. Sequential activation of caspases plays a central role in the execution-phase of cell apoptosis. Caspases exist as inactive proenzymes which undergo proteolytic processing at conserved aspartic residues to produce two subunits, large and small, that dimerize to form the active enzyme. This caspase has been shown to be processed and activated by caspase 8 and caspase 10 in vitro, and by anti-Fas agonist antibody or TNF-related apoptosis inducing ligand in vivo. The expression and processing of this caspase may be involved in keratinocyte terminal differentiation, which is important for the formation of the skin barrier.
CASP2	This gene encodes a member of the cysteine-aspartic acid protease (caspase) family. Caspases mediate cellular apoptosis through the proteolytic cleavage of specific protein substrates. The encoded protein may function in stress-induced cell death pathways, cell cycle maintenance, and the suppression of tumorigenesis. Increased expression of this gene may play a role in neurodegenerative disorders including Alzheimer's disease, Huntington's disease and temporal lobe epilepsy. Alternatively spliced transcript variants encoding multiple isoforms have been observed for this gene.
CASP3	The protein encoded by this gene is a cysteine-aspartic acid protease that plays a central role in the execution-phase of cell apoptosis. The encoded protein cleaves and inactivates poly(ADP-ribose) polymerase while it cleaves and activates sterol regulatory element binding proteins as well as caspases 6, 7, and 9. This protein itself is processed by caspases 8, 9, and 10. It is the predominant caspase involved in the cleavage of amyloid-beta 4A precursor protein, which is associated with neuronal death in Alzheimer's disease.
CASP4	This gene encodes a protein that is a member of the cysteine-aspartic acid protease (caspase) family. Sequential activation of caspases plays a central role in the execution-phase of cell apoptosis. Caspases exist as inactive proenzymes composed of a prodomain and a large and small protease subunit. Activation of caspases requires proteolytic processing at conserved internal aspartic residues to generate a heterodimeric enzyme consisting of the large and small subunits. This caspase is able to cleave and activate its own precursor protein, as well as caspase 1 precursor. When overexpressed, this gene induces cell apoptosis. Alternative splicing results in transcript variants encoding distinct isoforms.
CASP5	This gene encodes a member of the cysteine-aspartic acid protease (caspase) family. Sequential activation of caspases plays a central role in the execution-phase of cell apoptosis. Caspases exist as inactive proenzymes which undergo proteolytic processing at conserved aspartic residues to produce two subunits, large and small, that dimerize to form the active enzyme. Overexpression of the active form of this enzyme induces apoptosis in fibroblasts. Max, a central component of the Myc/Max/Mad transcription regulation network important for cell growth, differentiation, and apoptosis, is cleaved by this protein; this process requires Fas-mediated dephosphorylation of Max. The expression of this gene is regulated by interferon-gamma and lipopolysaccharide. Alternatively spliced transcript variants have been identified for this gene.
CASP6	This gene encodes a member of the cysteine-aspartic acid protease (caspase) family of enzymes. Sequential activation of caspases plays a central role in the execution-phase of cell apoptosis. Caspases exist as inactive proenzymes which undergo proteolytic processing at conserved aspartic acid residues to produce two subunits, large and small, that dimerize to form the active enzyme. This protein is processed by caspases 7, 8 and 10, and is thought to function as a downstream enzyme in the caspase activation cascade. Alternative splicing of this gene results in multiple transcript variants that encode different isoforms.
CASP7	This gene encodes a member of the cysteine-aspartic acid protease (caspase) family. Sequential activation of caspases plays a central role in the execution-phase of cell apoptosis. Caspases exist as inactive proenzymes which undergo proteolytic processing at conserved aspartic residues to produce two subunits, large and small, that dimerize to form the active enzyme. The precursor of the encoded protein is cleaved by caspase 3 and 10, is activated upon cell death stimuli and induces apoptosis. Alternatively spliced transcript variants encoding multiple isoforms have been observed for this gene.
CASP8	This gene encodes a member of the cysteine-aspartic acid protease (caspase) family. Sequential activation of caspases plays a central role in the execution-phase of cell apoptosis. Caspases exist as inactive proenzymes composed of a prodomain, a large protease subunit, and a small protease subunit. Activation of caspases requires proteolytic processing at conserved internal aspartic residues to generate a heterodimeric enzyme consisting of the large and small subunits. This protein is involved in the programmed cell death induced by Fas and various apoptotic stimuli. The N-terminal FADD-like death effector domain of this protein suggests that it may interact with Fas-interacting protein FADD. This protein was detected in the insoluble fraction of the affected brain region from Huntington disease patients but not in those from normal controls, which implicated the role in neurodegenerative diseases. Many alternatively spliced transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been described, although not all variants have had their full-length sequences determined.
CASP9	This gene encodes a member of the cysteine-aspartic acid protease (caspase) family. Sequential activation of caspases plays a central role in the execution-phase of cell apoptosis. Caspases exist as inactive proenzymes which undergo proteolytic processing at conserved aspartic residues to produce two subunits, large and small, that dimerize to form the active enzyme. This protein can undergo autoproteolytic processing and activation by the apoptosome, a protein complex of cytochrome c and the apoptotic peptidase activating factor 1; this step is thought to be one of the earliest in the caspase activation cascade. This protein is thought to play a central role in apoptosis and to be a tumor suppressor. Alternative splicing results in multiple transcript variants.
CASR	The protein encoded by this gene is a plasma membrane G protein-coupled receptor that senses small changes in circulating calcium concentration. The encoded protein couples this information to intracellular signaling pathways that modify parathyroid hormone secretion or renal cation handling, and thus this protein plays an essential role in maintaining mineral ion homeostasis. Mutations in this gene are a cause of familial hypocalciuric hypercalcemia, neonatal severe hyperparathyroidism, and autosomal dominant hypocalcemia.
CAT	This gene encodes catalase, a key antioxidant enzyme in the bodies defense against oxidative stress. Catalase is a heme enzyme that is present in the peroxisome of nearly all aerobic cells. Catalase converts the reactive oxygen species hydrogen peroxide to water and oxygen and thereby mitigates the toxic effects of hydrogen peroxide. Oxidative stress is hypothesized to play a role in the development of many chronic or late-onset diseases such as diabetes, asthma, Alzheimer's disease, systemic lupus erythematosus, rheumatoid arthritis, and cancers. Polymorphisms in this gene have been associated with decreases in catalase activity but, to date, acatalasemia is the only disease known to be caused by this gene.
CATSPER1	Calcium ions play a primary role in the regulation of sperm motility. This gene belongs to a family of putative cation channels that are specific to spermatozoa and localize to the flagellum. The protein family features a single repeat with six membrane-spanning segments and a predicted calcium-selective pore region.
CAV1	The scaffolding protein encoded by this gene is the main component of the caveolae plasma membranes found in most cell types. The protein links integrin subunits to the tyrosine kinase FYN, an initiating step in coupling integrins to the Ras-ERK pathway and promoting cell cycle progression. The gene is a tumor suppressor gene candidate and a negative regulator of the Ras-p42/44 mitogen-activated kinase cascade. Caveolin 1 and caveolin 2 are located next to each other on chromosome 7 and express colocalizing proteins that form a stable hetero-oligomeric complex. Mutations in this gene have been associated with Berardinelli-Seip congenital lipodystrophy. Alternatively spliced transcripts encode alpha and beta isoforms of caveolin 1.
CBFB	The protein encoded by this gene is the beta subunit of a heterodimeric core-binding transcription factor belonging to the PEBP2/CBF transcription factor family which master-regulates a host of genes specific to hematopoiesis (e.g., RUNX1) and osteogenesis (e.g., RUNX2). The beta subunit is a non-DNA binding regulatory subunit; it allosterically enhances DNA binding by alpha subunit as the complex binds to the core site of various enhancers and promoters, including murine leukemia virus, polyomavirus enhancer, T-cell receptor enhancers and GM-CSF promoters. Alternative splicing generates two mRNA variants, each encoding a distinct carboxyl terminus. In some cases, a pericentric inversion of chromosome 16
CBR1	The protein encoded by this gene belongs to the short-chain dehydrogenases/reductases (SDR) family, which function as NADPH-dependent oxidoreductases having wide specificity for carbonyl compounds, such as quinones, prostaglandins, and various xenobiotics. Alternatively spliced transcript variants have been found for this gene.
CBR3	Carbonyl reductase 3 catalyzes the reduction of a large number of biologically and pharmacologically active carbonyl compounds to their corresponding alcohols.  The enzyme is classified as a monomeric NADPH-dependent oxidoreductase.  CBR3 contains three exons spanning 11.2 kilobases and is closely linked to another carbonyl reductase gene
CBS	The protein encoded by this gene acts as a homotetramer to catalyze the conversion of homocysteine to cystathionine, the first step in the transsulfuration pathway. The encoded protein is allosterically activated by adenosyl-methionine and uses pyridoxal phosphate as a cofactor. Defects in this gene can cause cystathionine beta-synthase deficiency (CBSD), which can lead to homocystinuria. This gene is a major contributor to cellular hydrogen sulfide production. Multiple alternatively spliced transcript variants have been found for this gene.
CBX1	This gene encodes a highly conserved nonhistone protein, which is a member of the heterochromatin protein family . The protein is enriched in the heterochromatin and associated with centromeres. The protein has a single N-terminal chromodomain which can bind to histone proteins via methylated lysine residues, and a C-terminal chromo shadow-domain (CSD) which is responsible for the homodimerization and interaction with a number of chromatin-associated nonhistone proteins. The protein may play an important role in the epigenetic control of chromatin structure and gene expression. Several related pseudogenes are located on chromosomes 1, 3, and X. Multiple alternatively spliced variants, encoding the same protein, have been identified.
CBX2	This gene encodes a component of the polycomb multiprotein complex, which is required to maintain the transcriptionally repressive state of many genes throughout development via chromatin remodeling and modification of histones. Disruption of this gene in mice results in male-to-female gonadal sex reversal. Mutations in this gene are also associated with gonadal dysgenesis in humans. Alternatively spliced transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been noted for this gene.
CBX3	At the nuclear envelope, the nuclear lamina and heterochromatin are adjacent to the inner nuclear membrane. The protein encoded by this gene binds DNA and is a component of heterochromatin. This protein also can bind lamin B receptor, an integral membrane protein found in the inner nuclear membrane. The dual binding functions of the encoded protein may explain the association of heterochromatin with the inner nuclear membrane. This protein binds histone H3 tails methylated at Lys-9 sites. This protein is also recruited to sites of ultraviolet-induced DNA damage and double-strand breaks. Two transcript variants encoding the same protein but differing in the 5' UTR, have been found for this gene.
CBX4	E3 SUMO-protein ligase which facilitates SUMO1 conjugation by UBE2I .
CBX5	This gene encodes a highly conserved nonhistone protein, which is a member of the heterochromatin protein family. The protein is enriched in the heterochromatin and associated with centromeres. The protein has a single N-terminal chromodomain which can bind to histone proteins via methylated lysine residues, and a C-terminal chromo shadow-domain (CSD) which is responsible for the homodimerization and interaction with a number of chromatin-associated nonhistone proteins. The encoded product is involved in the formation of functional kinetochore through interaction with essential kinetochore proteins. The gene has a pseudogene located on chromosome 3. Multiple alternatively spliced variants, encoding the same protein, have been identified.
CBX6	Component of a Polycomb group (PcG) multiprotein PRC1-like complex, a complex class required to maintain the transcriptionally repressive state of many genes, including Hox genes, throughout development .
CBX7	This gene encodes a protein that contains the CHROMO (CHRomatin Organization MOdifier) domain. The encoded protein is a component of the Polycomb repressive complex 1 (PRC1), and is thought to control the lifespan of several normal human cells.
CBX8	Component of a Polycomb group (PcG) multiprotein PRC1-like complex, a complex class required to maintain the transcriptionally repressive state of many genes, including Hox genes, throughout development. PcG PRC1 complex acts via chromatin remodeling and modification of histones; it mediates monoubiquitination of histone H2A 'Lys-119', rendering chromatin heritably changed in its expressibility.
CCK	This gene encodes a member of the gastrin/cholecystokinin family of proteins. The encoded preproprotein is proteolytically processed to generate multiple protein products, including the peptide hormones cholecystokinin-8, -12, -33, and others. The encoded peptides have been shown to regulate gastric acid secretion and food intake. A sulfated form of cholecystokinin-8 may modulate neuronal activity in the brain. Alternative splicing results in multiple transcript variants.
CCKAR	This gene encodes a G-protein coupled receptor that binds non-sulfated members of the cholecystokinin (CCK) family of peptide hormones. This receptor is a major physiologic mediator of pancreatic enzyme secretion and smooth muscle contraction of the gallbladder and stomach. In the central and peripheral nervous system this receptor regulates satiety and the release of beta-endorphin and dopamine.
CCKBR	This gene encodes a G-protein coupled receptor for gastrin and cholecystokinin (CCK), regulatory peptides of the brain and gastrointestinal tract. This protein is a type B gastrin receptor, which has a high affinity for both sulfated and nonsulfated CCK analogs and is found principally in the central nervous system and the gastrointestinal tract. Alternative splicing results in multiple transcript variants. A misspliced transcript variant including an intron has been observed in cells from colorectal and pancreatic tumors.
CCL11	This antimicrobial gene is one of several chemokine genes clustered on the q-arm of chromosome 17. Chemokines form a superfamily of secreted proteins involved in immunoregulatory and inflammatory processes. The superfamily is divided into four subfamilies based on the arrangement of the N-terminal cysteine residues of the mature peptide. This chemokine, a member of the CC subfamily, displays chemotactic activity for eosinophils, but not mononuclear cells or neutrophils. This eosinophil-specific chemokine is thought to be involved in eosinophilic inflammatory diseases such as atopic dermatitis, allergic rhinitis, asthma and parasitic infections.
CCL2	This gene is one of several cytokine genes clustered on the q-arm of chromosome 17. Chemokines are a superfamily of secreted proteins involved in immunoregulatory and inflammatory processes. The superfamily is divided into four subfamilies based on the arrangement of N-terminal cysteine residues of the mature peptide. This chemokine is a member of the CC subfamily which is characterized by two adjacent cysteine residues. This cytokine displays chemotactic activity for monocytes and basophils but not for neutrophils or eosinophils. It has been implicated in the pathogenesis of diseases characterized by monocytic infiltrates, like psoriasis, rheumatoid arthritis and atherosclerosis. It binds to chemokine receptors CCR2 and CCR4.
CCL5	This gene is one of several chemokine genes clustered on the q-arm of chromosome 17. Chemokines form a superfamily of secreted proteins involved in immunoregulatory and inflammatory processes. The superfamily is divided into four subfamilies based on the arrangement of the N-terminal cysteine residues of the mature peptide. This chemokine, a member of the CC subfamily, functions as a chemoattractant for blood monocytes, memory T helper cells and eosinophils. It causes the release of histamine from basophils and activates eosinophils. This cytokine is one of the major HIV-suppressive factors produced by CD8+ cells. It functions as one of the natural ligands for the chemokine receptor chemokine (C-C motif) receptor 5 (CCR5), and it suppresses in vitro replication of the R5 strains of HIV-1, which use CCR5 as a coreceptor. Alternative splicing results in multiple transcript variants that encode different isoforms.
CCL7	This gene encodes monocyte chemotactic protein 3, a secreted chemokine which attracts macrophages during inflammation and metastasis. It is a member of the C-C subfamily of chemokines which are characterized by having two adjacent cysteine residues. The protein is an in vivo substrate of matrix metalloproteinase 2, an enzyme which degrades components of the extracellular matrix. This gene is part of a cluster of C-C chemokine family members on chromosome 17q.
CCNA2	The protein encoded by this gene belongs to the highly conserved cyclin family, whose members function as regulators of the cell cycle. This protein binds and activates cyclin-dependent kinase 2 and thus promotes transition through G1/S and G2/M.
CCNB1	The protein encoded by this gene is a regulatory protein involved in mitosis. The gene product complexes with p34(cdc2) to form the maturation-promoting factor (MPF). The encoded protein is necessary for proper control of the G2/M transition phase of the cell cycle.
CCNB2	Cyclin B2 is a member of the cyclin family, specifically the B-type cyclins. The B-type cyclins, B1 and B2, associate with p34cdc2 and are essential components of the cell cycle regulatory machinery. B1 and B2 differ in their subcellular localization. Cyclin B1 co-localizes with microtubules, whereas cyclin B2 is primarily associated with the Golgi region. Cyclin B2 also binds to transforming growth factor beta RII and thus cyclin B2/cdc2 may play a key role in transforming growth factor beta-mediated cell cycle control.
CCNC	The protein encoded by this gene is a member of the cyclin family of proteins. The encoded protein interacts with cyclin-dependent kinase 8 and induces the phophorylation of the carboxy-terminal domain of the large subunit of RNA polymerase II. The level of mRNAs for this gene peaks in the G1 phase of the cell cycle. Two transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been found for this gene.
CCND1	The protein encoded by this gene belongs to the highly conserved cyclin family, whose members are characterized by a dramatic periodicity in protein abundance throughout the cell cycle. Cyclins function as regulators of CDK kinases. Different cyclins exhibit distinct expression and degradation patterns which contribute to the temporal coordination of each mitotic event. This cyclin forms a complex with and functions as a regulatory subunit of CDK4 or CDK6, whose activity is required for cell cycle G1/S transition. This protein has been shown to interact with tumor suppressor protein Rb and the expression of this gene is regulated positively by Rb. Mutations, amplification and overexpression of this gene, which alters cell cycle progression, are observed frequently in a variety of tumors and may contribute to tumorigenesis.
CCND2	The protein encoded by this gene belongs to the highly conserved cyclin family, whose members are characterized by a dramatic periodicity in protein abundance through the cell cycle. Cyclins function as regulators of CDK kinases. Different cyclins exhibit distinct expression and degradation patterns which contribute to the temporal coordination of each mitotic event. This cyclin forms a complex with CDK4 or CDK6 and functions as a regulatory subunit of the complex, whose activity is required for cell cycle G1/S transition. This protein has been shown to interact with and be involved in the phosphorylation of tumor suppressor protein Rb. Knockout studies of the homologous gene in mouse suggest the essential roles of this gene in ovarian granulosa and germ cell proliferation. High level expression of this gene was observed in ovarian and testicular tumors. Mutations in this gene are associated with megalencephaly-polymicrogyria-polydactyly-hydrocephalus syndrome 3 (MPPH3).
CCND3	The protein encoded by this gene belongs to the highly conserved cyclin family, whose members are characterized by a dramatic periodicity in protein abundance through the cell cycle. Cyclins function as regulators of CDK kinases. Different cyclins exhibit distinct expression and degradation patterns which contribute to the temporal coordination of each mitotic event. This cyclin forms a complex with and functions as a regulatory subunit of CDK4 or CDK6, whose activtiy is required for cell cycle G1/S transition. This protein has been shown to interact with and be involved in the phosphorylation of tumor suppressor protein Rb. The CDK4 activity associated with this cyclin was reported to be necessary for cell cycle progression through G2 phase into mitosis after UV radiation. Several transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been found for this gene.
CCNE1	The protein encoded by this gene belongs to the highly conserved cyclin family, whose members are characterized by a dramatic periodicity in protein abundance through the cell cycle. Cyclins function as regulators of CDK kinases. Different cyclins exhibit distinct expression and degradation patterns which contribute to the temporal coordination of each mitotic event. This cyclin forms a complex with and functions as a regulatory subunit of CDK2, whose activity is required for cell cycle G1/S transition. This protein accumulates at the G1-S phase boundary and is degraded as cells progress through S phase. Overexpression of this gene has been observed in many tumors, which results in chromosome instability, and thus may contribute to tumorigenesis. This protein was found to associate with, and be involved in, the phosphorylation of NPAT protein (nuclear protein mapped to the ATM locus), which participates in cell-cycle regulated histone gene expression and plays a critical role in promoting cell-cycle progression in the absence of pRB.
CCNE2	The protein encoded by this gene belongs to the highly conserved cyclin family, whose members are characterized by a dramatic periodicity in protein abundance through the cell cycle. Cyclins function as regulators of CDK kinases. Different cyclins exhibit distinct expression and degradation patterns which contribute to the temporal coordination of each mitotic event. This cyclin forms a complex with and functions as a regulatory subunit of CDK2. This cyclin has been shown to specifically interact with CIP/KIP family of CDK inhibitors, and plays a role in cell cycle G1/S transition. The expression of this gene peaks at the G1-S phase and exhibits a pattern of tissue specificity distinct from that of cyclin E1. A significantly increased expression level of this gene was observed in tumor-derived cells.
CCNK	The protein encoded by this gene is a member of the transcription cyclin family. These cyclins may regulate transcription through their association with and activation of cyclin-dependent kinases (CDK) that phosphorylate the C-terminal domain (CTD) of the large subunit of RNA polymerase II. This gene product may play a dual role in regulating CDK and RNA polymerase II activities.
CCNT1	This gene encodes a member of the highly conserved cyclin C subfamily. The encoded protein tightly associates with cyclin-dependent kinase 9, and is a major subunit of positive transcription elongation factor b (p-TEFb). In humans, there are multiple forms of positive transcription elongation factor b, which may include one of several different cyclins along with cyclin-dependent kinase 9. The complex containing the encoded cyclin and cyclin-dependent kinase 9 acts as a cofactor of human immunodeficiency virus type 1 (HIV-1) Tat protein, and is both necessary and sufficient for full activation of viral transcription. This cyclin and its kinase partner are also involved in triggering transcript elongation through phosphorylation of the carboxy-terminal domain of the largest RNA polymerase II subunit. Overexpression of this gene is implicated in tumor growth. Alternative splicing results in multiple transcript variants.
CCR1	This gene encodes a member of the beta chemokine receptor family, which is predicted to be a seven transmembrane protein similar to G protein-coupled receptors. The ligands of this receptor include macrophage inflammatory protein 1 alpha (MIP-1 alpha), regulated on activation normal T expressed and secreted protein (RANTES), monocyte chemoattractant protein 3 (MCP-3), and myeloid progenitor inhibitory factor-1 (MPIF-1). Chemokines and their receptors mediated signal transduction are critical for the recruitment of effector immune cells to the site of inflammation. Knockout studies of the mouse homolog suggested the roles of this gene in host protection from inflammatory response, and susceptibility to virus and parasite. This gene and other chemokine receptor genes, including CCR2, CCRL2, CCR3, CCR5 and CCXCR1, are found to form a gene cluster on chromosome 3p.
CCR10	Chemokines are a group of small (approximately 8 to 14 kD), mostly basic, structurally related molecules that regulate cell trafficking of various types of leukocytes through interactions with a subset of 7-transmembrane, G protein-coupled receptors. Chemokines also play fundamental roles in the development, homeostasis, and function of the immune system, and they have effects on cells of the central nervous system as well as on endothelial cells involved in angiogenesis or angiostasis. Chemokines are divided into 2 major subfamilies, CXC and CC, based on the arrangement of the first 2 of the 4 conserved cysteine residues; the 2 cysteines are separated by a single amino acid in CXC chemokines and are adjacent in CC chemokines. CCR10 is the receptor for CCL27 (SCYA27; MIM 604833); CCR10-CCL27 interactions are involved in T cell-mediated skin inflammation (Homey et al., 2002
CCR2	The protein encoded by this gene is a receptor for monocyte chemoattractant protein-1, a chemokine which specifically mediates monocyte chemotaxis. Monocyte chemoattractant protein-1 is involved in monocyte infiltration in inflammatory diseases such as rheumatoid arthritis as well as in the inflammatory response against tumors. The encoded protein mediates agonist-dependent calcium mobilization and inhibition of adenylyl cyclase. This protein can also be a coreceptor with CD4 for HIV-1 infection. This gene is located in the chemokine receptor gene cluster region of chromosome 3.
CCR3	The protein encoded by this gene is a receptor for C-C type chemokines. It belongs to family 1 of the G protein-coupled receptors. This receptor binds and responds to a variety of chemokines, including eotaxin (CCL11), eotaxin-3 (CCL26), MCP-3 (CCL7), MCP-4 (CCL13), and RANTES (CCL5). It is highly expressed in eosinophils and basophils, and is also detected in TH1 and TH2 cells, as well as in airway epithelial cells. This receptor may contribute to the accumulation and activation of eosinophils and other inflammatory cells in the allergic airway. It is also known to be an entry co-receptor for HIV-1. This gene and seven other chemokine receptor genes form a chemokine receptor gene cluster on the chromosomal region 3p21. Alternatively spliced transcript variants have been described.
CCR4	The protein encoded by this gene belongs to the G-protein-coupled receptor family . It is a receptor for the CC chemokine
CCR5	This gene encodes a member of the beta chemokine receptor family, which is predicted to be a seven transmembrane protein similar to G protein-coupled receptors. This protein is expressed by T cells and macrophages, and is known to be an important co-receptor for macrophage-tropic virus, including HIV, to enter host cells. Defective alleles of this gene have been associated with the HIV infection resistance. The ligands of this receptor include monocyte chemoattractant protein 2 (MCP-2), macrophage inflammatory protein 1 alpha (MIP-1 alpha), macrophage inflammatory protein 1 beta (MIP-1 beta) and regulated on activation normal T expressed and secreted protein (RANTES). Expression of this gene was also detected in a promyeloblastic cell line, suggesting that this protein may play a role in granulocyte lineage proliferation and differentiation. This gene is located at the chemokine receptor gene cluster region. An allelic polymorphism in this gene results in both functional and non-functional alleles; the reference genome represents the functional allele. Two transcript variants encoding the same protein have been found for this gene.
CCR6	This gene encodes a member of the beta chemokine receptor family, which is predicted to be a seven transmembrane protein similar to G protein-coupled receptors. The gene is preferentially expressed by immature dendritic cells and memory T cells. The ligand of this receptor is macrophage inflammatory protein 3 alpha (MIP-3 alpha). This receptor has been shown to be important for B-lineage maturation and antigen-driven B-cell differentiation, and it may regulate the migration and recruitment of dentritic and T cells during inflammatory and immunological responses. Alternatively spliced transcript variants that encode the same protein have been described for this gene.
CCR7	The protein encoded by this gene is a member of the G protein-coupled receptor family. This receptor was identified as a gene induced by the Epstein-Barr virus (EBV), and is thought to be a mediator of EBV effects on B lymphocytes. This receptor is expressed in various lymphoid tissues and activates B and T lymphocytes. It has been shown to control the migration of memory T cells to inflamed tissues, as well as stimulate dendritic cell maturation. The chemokine (C-C motif) ligand 19 (CCL19/ECL) has been reported to be a specific ligand of this receptor. Signals mediated by this receptor regulate T cell homeostasis in lymph nodes, and may also function in the activation and polarization of T cells, and in chronic inflammation pathogenesis. Alternative splicing of this gene results in multiple transcript variants.
CCR8	This gene encodes a member of the beta chemokine receptor family, which is predicted to be a seven transmembrane protein similar to G protein-coupled receptors. Chemokines and their receptors are important for the migration of various cell types into the inflammatory sites. This receptor protein preferentially expresses in the thymus. I-309, thymus activation-regulated cytokine (TARC) and macrophage inflammatory protein-1 beta (MIP-1 beta) have been identified as ligands of this receptor. Studies of this receptor and its ligands suggested its role in regulation of monocyte chemotaxis and thymic cell apoptosis. More specifically, this receptor may contribute to the proper positioning of activated T cells within the antigenic challenge sites and specialized areas of lymphoid tissues. This gene is located at the chemokine receptor gene cluster region.
CCR9	The protein encoded by this gene is a member of the beta chemokine receptor family. It is predicted to be a seven transmembrane protein similar to G protein-coupled receptors. Chemokines and their receptors are key regulators of the thymocytes migration and maturation in normal and inflammation conditions. The specific ligand of this receptor is CCL25. It has been found that this gene is differentially expressed by T lymphocytes of small intestine and colon, suggested a role in the thymocytes recruitment and development that may permit functional specialization of immune responses in different segment of the gastrointestinal tract. This gene is mapped to the chemokine receptor gene cluster region. Two alternatively spliced transcript variants have been described. Multiple transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been found for this gene.
CCRL2	This gene encodes a chemokine receptor like protein, which is predicted to be a seven transmembrane protein and most closely related to CCR1. Chemokines and their receptors mediated signal transduction are critical for the recruitment of effector immune cells to the site of inflammation. This gene is expressed at high levels in primary neutrophils and primary monocytes, and is further upregulated on neutrophil activation and during monocyte to macrophage differentiation. The function of this gene is unknown. This gene is mapped to the region where the chemokine receptor gene cluster is located.
CD14	The protein encoded by this gene is a surface antigen that is preferentially expressed on monocytes/macrophages. It cooperates with other proteins to mediate the innate immune response to bacterial lipopolysaccharide. Alternative splicing results in multiple transcript variants encoding the same protein.
CD19	Lymphocytes proliferate and differentiate in response to various concentrations of different antigens. The ability of the B cell to respond in a specific, yet sensitive manner to the various antigens is achieved with the use of low-affinity antigen receptors. This gene encodes a cell surface molecule which assembles with the antigen receptor of B lymphocytes in order to decrease the threshold for antigen receptor-dependent stimulation.
CD1D	This gene encodes a divergent member of the CD1 family of transmembrane glycoproteins, which are structurally related to the major histocompatibility complex (MHC) proteins and form heterodimers with beta-2-microglobulin. The CD1 proteins mediate the presentation of primarily lipid and glycolipid antigens of self or microbial origin to T cells. The human genome contains five CD1 family genes organized in a cluster on chromosome 1. The CD1 family members are thought to differ in their cellular localization and specificity for particular lipid ligands. The protein encoded by this gene localizes to late endosomes and lysosomes via a tyrosine-based motif in the cytoplasmic tail. Two transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been found for this gene.
CD2	The protein encoded by this gene is a surface antigen found on all peripheral blood T-cells. The encoded protein interacts with LFA3 (CD58) on antigen presenting cells to optimize immune recognition. A locus control region (LCR) has been found in the 3' flanking sequence of this gene.
CD200	This gene encodes a type I membrane glycoprotein containing two extracellular immunoglobulin domains, a transmembrane and a cytoplasmic domain. This gene is expressed by various cell types, including B cells, a subset of T cells, thymocytes, endothelial cells, and neurons. The encoded protein plays an important role in immunosuppression and regulation of anti-tumor activity. Alternative splicing results in multiple transcript variants encoding different isoforms.
CD207	The protein encoded by this gene is expressed only in Langerhans cells which are immature dendritic cells of the epidermis and mucosa. It is localized in the Birbeck granules, organelles present in the cytoplasm of Langerhans cells and consisting of superimposed and zippered membranes. It is a C-type lectin with mannose binding specificity, and it has been proposed that mannose binding by this protein leads to internalization of antigen into Birbeck granules and providing access to a nonclassical antigen-processing pathway. Mutations in this gene result in Birbeck granules deficiency or loss of sugar binding activity.
CD209	This gene encodes a transmembrane receptor and is often referred to as DC-SIGN because of its expression on the surface of dendritic cells and macrophages. The encoded protein is involved in the innate immune system and recognizes numerous evolutionarily divergent pathogens ranging from parasites to viruses with a large impact on public health. The protein is organized into three distinct domains: an N-terminal transmembrane domain, a tandem-repeat neck domain and C-type lectin carbohydrate recognition domain. The extracellular region consisting of the C-type lectin and neck domains has a dual function as a pathogen recognition receptor and a cell adhesion receptor by binding carbohydrate ligands on the surface of microbes and endogenous cells. The neck region is important for homo-oligomerization which allows the receptor to bind multivalent ligands with high avidity. Variations in the number of 23 amino acid repeats in the neck domain of this protein are rare but have a significant impact on ligand binding ability. This gene is closely related in terms of both sequence and function to a neighboring gene (GeneID 10332; often referred to as L-SIGN). DC-SIGN and L-SIGN differ in their ligand-binding properties and distribution. Alternative splicing results in multiple variants.
CD22	Mediates B-cell B-cell interactions. May be involved in the localization of B-cells in lymphoid tissues. Binds sialylated glycoproteins; one of which is CD45. Preferentially binds to alpha-2,6-linked sialic acid. The sialic acid recognition site can be masked by cis interactions with sialic acids on the same cell surface. Upon ligand induced tyrosine phosphorylation in the immune response seems to be involved in regulation of B-cell antigen receptor signaling. Plays a role in positive regulation through interaction with Src family tyrosine kinases and may also act as an inhibitory receptor by recruiting cytoplasmic phosphatases via their SH2 domains that block signal transduction through dephosphorylation of signaling molecules.
CD248	May play a role in tumor angiogenesis.
CD27	The protein encoded by this gene is a member of the TNF-receptor superfamily. This receptor is required for generation and long-term maintenance of T cell immunity. It binds to ligand CD70, and plays a key role in regulating B-cell activation and immunoglobulin synthesis. This receptor transduces signals that lead to the activation of NF-kappaB and MAPK8/JNK. Adaptor proteins TRAF2 and TRAF5 have been shown to mediate the signaling process of this receptor. CD27-binding protein (SIVA), a proapoptotic protein, can bind to this receptor and is thought to play an important role in the apoptosis induced by this receptor.
CD274	This gene encodes an immune inhibitory receptor ligand that is expressed by hematopoietic and non-hematopoietic cells, such as T cells and B cells and various types of tumor cells. The encoded protein is a type I transmembrane protein that has immunoglobulin V-like and C-like domains. Interaction of this ligand with its receptor inhibits T-cell activation and cytokine production. During infection or inflammation of normal tissue, this interaction is important for preventing autoimmunity by maintaining homeostasis of the immune response. In tumor microenvironments, this interaction provides an immune escape for tumor cells through cytotoxic T-cell inactivation. Expression of this gene in tumor cells is considered to be prognostic in many types of human malignancies, including colon cancer and renal cell carcinoma. Alternative splicing results in multiple transcript variants.
CD276	The protein encoded by this gene belongs to the immunoglobulin superfamily, and thought to participate in the regulation of T-cell-mediated immune response. Studies show that while the transcript of this gene is ubiquitously expressed in normal tissues and solid tumors, the protein is preferentially expressed only in tumor tissues. Additionally, it was observed that the 3' UTR of this transcript contains a target site for miR29 microRNA, and there is an inverse correlation between the expression of this protein and miR29 levels, suggesting regulation of expression of this gene product by miR29. Alternatively spliced transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been found for this gene.
CD28	The protein encoded by this gene is essential for T-cell proliferation and survival, cytokine production, and T-helper type-2 development. Several alternatively spliced transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been found for this gene.
CD33	Sialic-acid-binding immunoglobulin-like lectin (Siglec) that plays a role in mediating cell-cell interactions and in maintaining immune cells in a resting state .
CD36	The protein encoded by this gene is the fourth major glycoprotein of the platelet surface and serves as a receptor for thrombospondin in platelets and various cell lines. Since thrombospondins are widely distributed proteins involved in a variety of adhesive processes, this protein may have important functions as a cell adhesion molecule. It binds to collagen, thrombospondin, anionic phospholipids and oxidized LDL. It directly mediates cytoadherence of Plasmodium falciparum parasitized erythrocytes and it binds long chain fatty acids and may function in the transport and/or as a regulator of fatty acid transport. Mutations in this gene cause platelet glycoprotein deficiency. Multiple alternatively spliced transcript variants have been found for this gene.
CD38	The protein encoded by this gene is a non-lineage-restricted, type II transmembrane glycoprotein that synthesizes and hydrolyzes cyclic adenosine 5'-diphosphate-ribose, an intracellular calcium ion mobilizing messenger. The release of soluble protein and the ability of membrane-bound protein to become internalized indicate both extracellular and intracellular functions for the protein. This protein has an N-terminal cytoplasmic tail, a single membrane-spanning domain, and a C-terminal extracellular region with four N-glycosylation sites. Crystal structure analysis demonstrates that the functional molecule is a dimer, with the central portion containing the catalytic site. It is used as a prognostic marker for patients with chronic lymphocytic leukemia. Alternative splicing results in multiple transcript variants.
CD3D	The protein encoded by this gene is part of the T-cell receptor/CD3 complex (TCR/CD3 complex) and is involved in T-cell development and signal transduction. The encoded membrane protein represents the delta subunit of the CD3 complex, and along with four other CD3 subunits, binds either TCR alpha/beta or TCR gamma/delta to form the TCR/CD3 complex on the surface of T-cells. Defects in this gene are a cause of severe combined immunodeficiency autosomal recessive T-cell-negative/B-cell-positive/NK-cell-positive (SCIDBNK). Two transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been found for this gene. Other variants may also exist, but the full-length natures of their transcripts has yet to be defined.
CD3E	The protein encoded by this gene is the CD3-epsilon polypeptide, which together with CD3-gamma, -delta and -zeta, and the T-cell receptor alpha/beta and gamma/delta heterodimers, forms the T-cell receptor-CD3 complex. This complex plays an important role in coupling antigen recognition to several intracellular signal-transduction pathways. The genes encoding the epsilon, gamma and delta polypeptides are located in the same cluster on chromosome 11. The epsilon polypeptide plays an essential role in T-cell development. Defects in this gene cause immunodeficiency. This gene has also been linked to a susceptibility to type I diabetes in women.
CD4	This gene encodes a membrane glycoprotein of T lymphocytes that interacts with major histocompatibility complex class II antigenes and is also a receptor for the human immunodeficiency virus. This gene is expressed not only in T lymphocytes, but also in B cells, macrophages, and granulocytes. It is also expressed in specific regions of the brain. The protein functions to initiate or augment the early phase of T-cell activation, and may function as an important mediator of indirect neuronal damage in infectious and immune-mediated diseases of the central nervous system. Multiple alternatively spliced transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been identified in this gene.
CD40	This gene is a member of the TNF-receptor superfamily. The encoded protein is a receptor on antigen-presenting cells of the immune system and is essential for mediating a broad variety of immune and inflammatory responses including T cell-dependent immunoglobulin class switching, memory B cell development, and germinal center formation. AT-hook transcription factor AKNA is reported to coordinately regulate the expression of this receptor and its ligand, which may be important for homotypic cell interactions. Adaptor protein TNFR2 interacts with this receptor and serves as a mediator of the signal transduction. The interaction of this receptor and its ligand is found to be necessary for amyloid-beta-induced microglial activation, and thus is thought to be an early event in Alzheimer disease pathogenesis. Mutations affecting this gene are the cause of autosomal recessive hyper-IgM immunodeficiency type 3 (HIGM3). Multiple alternatively spliced transcript variants of this gene encoding distinct isoforms have been reported.
CD40LG	The protein encoded by this gene is expressed on the surface of T cells. It regulates B cell function by engaging CD40 on the B cell surface. A defect in this gene results in an inability to undergo immunoglobulin class switch and is associated with hyper-IgM syndrome.
CD44	The protein encoded by this gene is a cell-surface glycoprotein involved in cell-cell interactions, cell adhesion and migration. It is a receptor for hyaluronic acid (HA) and can also interact with other ligands, such as osteopontin, collagens, and matrix metalloproteinases (MMPs). This protein participates in a wide variety of cellular functions including lymphocyte activation, recirculation and homing, hematopoiesis, and tumor metastasis. Transcripts for this gene undergo complex alternative splicing that results in many functionally distinct isoforms, however, the full length nature of some of these variants has not been determined. Alternative splicing is the basis for the structural and functional diversity of this protein, and may be related to tumor metastasis.
CD47	This gene encodes a membrane protein, which is involved in the increase in intracellular calcium concentration that occurs upon cell adhesion to extracellular matrix. The encoded protein is also a receptor for the C-terminal cell binding domain of thrombospondin, and it may play a role in membrane transport and signal transduction. This gene has broad tissue distribution, and is reduced in expression on Rh erythrocytes. Alternatively spliced transcript variants have been found for this gene.
CD5	This gene encodes a member of the scavenger receptor cysteine-rich (SRCR) superfamily. Members of this family are secreted or membrane-anchored proteins mainly found in cells associated with the immune system. This protein is a type-I transmembrane glycoprotein found on the surface of thymocytes, T lymphocytes and a subset of B lymphocytes. The encoded protein contains three SRCR domains and may act as a receptor to regulate T-cell proliferation. Alternative splicing results in multiple transcript variants encoding different isoforms.
CD52	May play a role in carrying and orienting carbohydrate, as well as having a more specific role.
CD58	This gene encodes a member of the immunoglobulin superfamily. The encoded protein is a ligand of the T lymphocyte CD2 protein, and functions in adhesion and activation of T lymphocytes. The protein is localized to the plasma membrane. Alternatively spliced transcript variants have been described.
CD6	This gene encodes a protein found on the outer membrane of T-lymphocytes as well as some other immune cells. The encoded protein contains three scavenger receptor cysteine-rich (SRCR) domains and a binding site for an activated leukocyte cell adhesion molecule. The gene product is important for continuation of T cell activation. This gene may be associated with susceptibility to multiple sclerosis (PMID: 19525953, 21849685). Multiple transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been found for this gene.
CD63	The protein encoded by this gene is a member of the transmembrane 4 superfamily, also known as the tetraspanin family. Most of these members are cell-surface proteins that are characterized by the presence of four hydrophobic domains. The proteins mediate signal transduction events that play a role in the regulation of cell development, activation, growth and motility. The encoded protein is a cell surface glycoprotein that is known to complex with integrins. It may function as a blood platelet activation marker. Deficiency of this protein is associated with Hermansky-Pudlak syndrome. Also this gene has been associated with tumor progression. Alternative splicing results in multiple transcript variants encoding different protein isoforms.
CD69	This gene encodes a member of the calcium dependent lectin superfamily of type II transmembrane receptors. Expression of the encoded protein is induced upon activation of T lymphocytes, and may play a role in proliferation. Furthermore, the protein may act to transmit signals in natural killer cells and platelets.
CD70	The protein encoded by this gene is a cytokine that belongs to the tumor necrosis factor (TNF) ligand family. This cytokine is a ligand for TNFRSF27/CD27. It is a surface antigen on activated, but not on resting, T and B lymphocytes. It induces proliferation of costimulated T cells, enhances the generation of cytolytic T cells, and contributes to T cell activation. This cytokine is also reported to play a role in regulating B-cell activation, cytotoxic function of natural killer cells, and immunoglobulin sythesis.
CD74	The protein encoded by this gene associates with class II major histocompatibility complex (MHC) and is an important chaperone that regulates antigen presentation for immune response. It also serves as cell surface receptor for the cytokine macrophage migration inhibitory factor (MIF) which, when bound to the encoded protein, initiates survival pathways and cell proliferation. This protein also interacts with amyloid precursor protein (APP) and suppresses the production of amyloid beta (Abeta). Multiple alternatively spliced transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been identified.
CD79B	The B lymphocyte antigen receptor is a multimeric complex that includes the antigen-specific component, surface immunoglobulin (Ig). Surface Ig non-covalently associates with two other proteins, Ig-alpha and Ig-beta, which are necessary for expression and function of the B-cell antigen receptor. This gene encodes the Ig-beta protein of the B-cell antigen component. Alternatively spliced transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been described.
CD80	The protein encoded by this gene is a membrane receptor that is activated by the binding of CD28 or CTLA-4. The activated protein induces T-cell proliferation and cytokine production. This protein can act as a receptor for adenovirus subgroup B and may play a role in lupus neuropathy.
CD81	The protein encoded by this gene is a member of the transmembrane 4 superfamily, also known as the tetraspanin family. Most of these members are cell-surface proteins that are characterized by the presence of four hydrophobic domains. The proteins mediate signal transduction events that play a role in the regulation of cell development, activation, growth and motility. This encoded protein is a cell surface glycoprotein that is known to complex with integrins. This protein appears to promote muscle cell fusion and support myotube maintenance. Also it may be involved in signal transduction. This gene is localized in the tumor-suppressor gene region and thus it is a candidate gene for malignancies. Two transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been found for this gene.
CD86	This gene encodes a type I membrane protein that is a member of the immunoglobulin superfamily. This protein is expressed by antigen-presenting cells, and it is the ligand for two proteins at the cell surface of T cells, CD28 antigen and cytotoxic T-lymphocyte-associated protein 4. Binding of this protein with CD28 antigen is a costimulatory signal for activation of the T-cell. Binding of this protein with cytotoxic T-lymphocyte-associated protein 4 negatively regulates T-cell activation and diminishes the immune response. Alternative splicing results in several transcript variants encoding different isoforms.
CDA	This gene encodes an enzyme involved in pyrimidine salvaging. The encoded protein forms a homotetramer that catalyzes the irreversible hydrolytic deamination of cytidine and deoxycytidine to uridine and deoxyuridine, respectively. It is one of several deaminases responsible for maintaining the cellular pyrimidine pool. Mutations in this gene are associated with decreased sensitivity to the cytosine nucleoside analogue cytosine arabinoside used in the treatment of certain childhood leukemias.
CDC14A	The protein encoded by this gene is a member of the dual specificity protein tyrosine phosphatase family. It is highly similar to Saccharomyces cerevisiae Cdc14, a protein tyrosine phosphatase involved in the exit of cell mitosis and initiation of DNA replication, suggesting a role in cell cycle control. This protein has been shown to interact with, and dephosphorylate tumor suppressor protein p53, and is thought to regulate the function of p53. Alternative splicing of this gene results in several transcript variants encoding distinct isoforms.
CDC25A	CDC25A is a member of the CDC25 family of phosphatases. CDC25A is required for progression from G1 to the S phase of the cell cycle. It activates the cyclin-dependent kinase CDC2 by removing two phosphate groups. CDC25A is specifically degraded in response to DNA damage, which prevents cells with chromosomal abnormalities from progressing through cell division. CDC25A is an oncogene, although its exact role in oncogenesis has not been demonstrated. Two transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been found for this gene.
CDC25B	CDC25B is a member of the CDC25 family of phosphatases. CDC25B activates the cyclin dependent kinase CDC2 by removing two phosphate groups and it is required for entry into mitosis. CDC25B shuttles between the nucleus and the cytoplasm due to nuclear localization and nuclear export signals. The protein is nuclear in the M and G1 phases of the cell cycle and moves to the cytoplasm during S and G2. CDC25B has oncogenic properties, although its role in tumor formation has not been determined. Multiple transcript variants for this gene exist.
CDC25C	This gene encodes a conserved protein that plays a key role in the regulation of cell division. The encoded protein directs dephosphorylation of cyclin B-bound CDC2 and triggers entry into mitosis. It also suppresses p53-induced growth arrest. Multiple alternatively spliced transcript variants of this gene have been described.
CDC37	The protein encoded by this gene is highly similar to Cdc 37, a cell division cycle control protein of Sacchromyces cerevisiae. This protein is a molecular chaperone with specific function in cell signal transduction. It has been shown to form complex with Hsp90 and a variety of protein kinases including CDK4, CDK6, SRC, RAF-1, MOK, as well as eIF2 alpha kinases. It is thought to play a critical role in directing Hsp90 to its target kinases.
CDC42	The protein encoded by this gene is a small GTPase of the Rho-subfamily, which regulates signaling pathways that control diverse cellular functions including cell morphology, migration, endocytosis and cell cycle progression. This protein is highly similar to Saccharomyces cerevisiae Cdc 42, and is able to complement the yeast cdc42-1 mutant. The product of oncogene Dbl was reported to specifically catalyze the dissociation of GDP from this protein. This protein could regulate actin polymerization through its direct binding to Neural Wiskott-Aldrich syndrome protein (N-WASP), which subsequently activates Arp2/3 complex. Alternative splicing of this gene results in multiple transcript variants. Pseudogenes of this gene have been identified on chromosomes 3, 4, 5, 7, 8 and 20.
CDC42BPA	The protein encoded by this gene is a member of the serine/threonine protein kinase family. This kinase contains multiple functional domains. Its kinase domain is highly similar to that of the myotonic dystrophy protein kinase (DMPK). This kinase also contains a Rac interactive binding (CRIB) domain, and has been shown to bind CDC42. It may function as a CDC42 downstream effector mediating CDC42 induced peripheral actin formation, and promoting cytoskeletal reorganization. Multiple alternatively spliced transcript variants have been described.
CDC42BPB	This gene encodes a member of the serine/threonine protein kinase family. The encoded protein contains a Cdc42/Rac-binding p21 binding domain resembling that of PAK kinase. The kinase domain of this protein is most closely related to that of myotonic dystrophy kinase-related ROK. Studies of the similar gene in rat suggested that this kinase may act as a downstream effector of Cdc42 in cytoskeletal reorganization.
CDC42BPG	May act as a downstream effector of CDC42 in cytoskeletal reorganization. Contributes to the actomyosin contractility required for cell invasion, through the regulation of MYPT1 and thus MLC2 phosphorylation (By similarity).
CDC42SE1	Probably involved in the organization of the actin cytoskeleton by acting downstream of CDC42, inducing actin filament assembly. Alters CDC42-induced cell shape changes. In activated T-cells, may play a role in CDC42-mediated F-actin accumulation at the immunological synapse. May play a role in early contractile events in phagocytosis in macrophages.
CDC45	The protein encoded by this gene was identified by its strong similarity with Saccharomyces cerevisiae Cdc45, an essential protein required to the initiation of DNA replication. Cdc45 is a member of the highly conserved multiprotein complex including Cdc6/Cdc18, the minichromosome maintenance proteins (MCMs) and DNA polymerase, which is important for early steps of DNA replication in eukaryotes. This protein has been shown to interact with MCM7 and DNA polymerase alpha. Studies of the similar gene in Xenopus suggested that this protein play a pivotal role in the loading of DNA polymerase alpha onto chromatin. Alternate splicing results in multiple transcript variants.
CDC6	The protein encoded by this gene is highly similar to Saccharomyces cerevisiae Cdc6, a protein essential for the initiation of DNA replication. This protein functions as a regulator at the early steps of DNA replication. It localizes in cell nucleus during cell cyle G1, but translocates to the cytoplasm at the start of S phase. The subcellular translocation of this protein during cell cyle is regulated through its phosphorylation by Cdks. Transcription of this protein was reported to be regulated in response to mitogenic signals through transcriptional control mechanism involving E2F proteins.
CDC7	This gene encodes a cell division cycle protein with kinase activity that is critical for the G1/S transition. The yeast homolog is also essential for initiation of DNA replication as cell division occurs. Overexpression of this gene product may be associated with neoplastic transformation for some tumors. Multiple alternatively spliced transcript variants that encode the same protein have been detected.
CDH1	This gene encodes a classical cadherin of the cadherin superfamily. Alternative splicing results in multiple transcript variants, at least one of which encodes a preproprotein that is proteolytically processed to generate the mature glycoprotein. This calcium-dependent cell-cell adhesion protein is comprised of five extracellular cadherin repeats, a transmembrane region and a highly conserved cytoplasmic tail. Mutations in this gene are correlated with gastric, breast, colorectal, thyroid and ovarian cancer. Loss of function of this gene is thought to contribute to cancer progression by increasing proliferation, invasion, and/or metastasis. The ectodomain of this protein mediates bacterial adhesion to mammalian cells and the cytoplasmic domain is required for internalization. This gene is present in a gene cluster with other members of the cadherin family on chromosome 16.
CDH2	This gene encodes a classical cadherin and member of the cadherin superfamily. Alternative splicing results in multiple transcript variants, at least one of which encodes a preproprotein is proteolytically processed to generate a calcium-dependent cell adhesion molecule and glycoprotein. This protein plays a role in the establishment of left-right asymmetry, development of the nervous system and the formation of cartilage and bone.
CDH3	This gene encodes a classical cadherin of the cadherin superfamily. Alternative splicing results in multiple transcript variants, at least one of which encodes a preproprotein that is proteolytically processed to generate the mature glycoprotein. This calcium-dependent cell-cell adhesion protein is comprised of five extracellular cadherin repeats, a transmembrane region and a highly conserved cytoplasmic tail. This gene is located in a gene cluster in a region on the long arm of chromosome 16 that is involved in loss of heterozygosity events in breast and prostate cancer. In addition, aberrant expression of this protein is observed in cervical adenocarcinomas. Mutations in this gene are associated with hypotrichosis with juvenile macular dystrophy and ectodermal dysplasia, ectrodactyly, and macular dystrophy syndrome (EEMS).
CDK1	The protein encoded by this gene is a member of the Ser/Thr protein kinase family. This protein is a catalytic subunit of the highly conserved protein kinase complex known as M-phase promoting factor (MPF), which is essential for G1/S and G2/M phase transitions of eukaryotic cell cycle. Mitotic cyclins stably associate with this protein and function as regulatory subunits. The kinase activity of this protein is controlled by cyclin accumulation and destruction through the cell cycle. The phosphorylation and dephosphorylation of this protein also play important regulatory roles in cell cycle control. Alternatively spliced transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been found for this gene.
CDK10	The protein encoded by this gene belongs to the CDK subfamily of the Ser/Thr protein kinase family. The CDK subfamily members are highly similar to the gene products of S. cerevisiae cdc28, and S. pombe cdc2, and are known to be essential for cell cycle progression. This kinase has been shown to play a role in cellular proliferation and its function is limited to cell cycle G2-M phase. Multiple transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been found for this gene.
CDK11A	This gene encodes a member of the serine/threonine protein kinase family. Members of this kinase family are known to be essential for eukaryotic cell cycle control. Due to a segmental duplication, this gene shares very high sequence identity with a neighboring gene. These two genes are frequently deleted or altered in neuroblastoma. The protein kinase encoded by this gene can be cleaved by caspases and may play a role in cell apoptosis. Alternative splicing results in multiple transcript variants.
CDK11B	This gene encodes a member of the serine/threonine protein kinase family. Members of this kinase family are known to be essential for eukaryotic cell cycle control. Due to a segmental duplication, this gene shares very high sequence identity with a neighboring gene. These two genes are frequently deleted or altered in neuroblastoma. The protein kinase encoded by this gene can be cleaved by caspases and may play a role in cell apoptosis. Alternative splicing results in multiple transcript variants.
CDK13	The protein encoded by this gene is a member of the cyclin-dependent serine/threonine protein kinase family. Members of this family are well known for their essential roles as master switches in cell cycle control. The exact function of this protein has not yet been determined, but it may play a role in mRNA processing and may be involved in regulation of hematopoiesis. Alternatively spliced transcript variants have been described.
CDK14	PFTK1 is a member of the CDC2 (MIM 116940)-related protein kinase family (Yang and Chen, 2001
CDK15	Serine/threonine-protein kinase that acts like an antiapoptotic protein that counters TRAIL/TNFSF10-induced apoptosis by inducing phosphorylation of BIRC5 at 'Thr-34'.
CDK16	The protein encoded by this gene belongs to the cdc2/cdkx subfamily of the ser/thr family of protein kinases. It may play a role in signal transduction cascades in terminally differentiated cells; in exocytosis; and in transport of secretory cargo from the endoplasmic reticulum. This gene is thought to escape X inactivation. Alternative splicing results in multiple transcript variants encoding different isoforms.
CDK17	The protein encoded by this gene belongs to the cdc2/cdkx subfamily of the ser/thr family of protein kinases. It has similarity to a rat protein that is thought to play a role in terminally differentiated neurons. Alternatively spliced transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been found.
CDK18	May play a role in signal transduction cascades in terminally differentiated cells.
CDK19	This gene encodes a protein that is one of the components of the Mediator co-activator complex. The Mediator complex is a multi-protein complex required for transcriptional activation by DNA binding transcription factors of genes transcribed by RNA polymerase II. The protein encoded by this gene is similar to cyclin-dependent kinase 8 which can also be a component of the Mediator complex. Alternative splicing results in multiple transcript variants encoding distinct isoforms.
CDK2	This gene encodes a member of a family of serine/threonine protein kinases that participate in cell cycle regulation. The encoded protein is the catalytic subunit of the cyclin-dependent protein kinase complex, which regulates progression through the cell cycle. Activity of this protein is especially critical during the G1 to S phase transition. This protein associates with and regulated by other subunits of the complex including cyclin A or E, CDK inhibitor p21Cip1 (CDKN1A), and p27Kip1 (CDKN1B). Alternative splicing results in multiple transcript variants.
CDK2AP1	The protein encoded by this gene is a cyclin-dependent kinase 2 (CDK2) -associated protein which is thought to negatively regulate CDK2 activity by sequestering monomeric CDK2, and targeting CDK2 for proteolysis. This protein was found to also interact with DNA polymerase alpha/primase and mediate the phosphorylation of the large p180 subunit, which suggests a regulatory role in DNA replication during the S-phase of the cell cycle. This protein also forms a core subunit of the nucleosome remodeling and histone deacetylation (NURD) complex that epigenetically regulates embryonic stem cell differentiation. This gene thus plays a role in both cell-cycle and epigenetic regulation. Alternative splicing results in multiple transcript variants encoding distinct isoforms.
CDK2AP2	This gene encodes a protein that interacts with cyclin-dependent kinase 2 associated protein 1. Pseudogenes associated with this gene are located on chromosomes 7 and 9. Alternatively spliced transcript variants have been observed for this gene.
CDK3	This gene encodes a member of the cyclin-dependent protein kinase family. The protein promotes entry into S phase, in part by activating members of the E2F family of transcription factors. The protein also associates with cyclin C and phosphorylates the retinoblastoma 1 protein to promote exit from G0.
CDK4	The protein encoded by this gene is a member of the Ser/Thr protein kinase family. This protein is highly similar to the gene products of S. cerevisiae cdc28 and S. pombe cdc2. It is a catalytic subunit of the protein kinase complex that is important for cell cycle G1 phase progression. The activity of this kinase is restricted to the G1-S phase, which is controlled by the regulatory subunits D-type cyclins and CDK inhibitor p16(INK4a). This kinase was shown to be responsible for the phosphorylation of retinoblastoma gene product (Rb). Mutations in this gene as well as in its related proteins including D-type cyclins, p16(INK4a) and Rb were all found to be associated with tumorigenesis of a variety of cancers. Multiple polyadenylation sites of this gene have been reported.
CDK5	This gene encodes a proline-directed serine/threonine kinase that is a member of the cyclin-dependent kinase family of proteins. Unlike other members of the family, the protein encoded by this gene does not directly control cell cycle regulation. Instead the protein, which is predominantly expressed at high levels in mammalian postmitotic central nervous system neurons, functions in diverse processes such as synaptic plasticity and neuronal migration through phosphorylation of proteins required for cytoskeletal organization, endocytosis and exocytosis, and apoptosis. In humans, an allelic variant of the gene that results in undetectable levels of the protein has been associated with lethal autosomal recessive lissencephaly-7. Alternative splicing results in multiple transcript variants.
CDK5R1	The protein encoded by this gene (p35) is a neuron-specific activator of cyclin-dependent kinase 5 (CDK5); the activation of CDK5 is required for proper development of the central nervous system. The p35 form of this protein is proteolytically cleaved by calpain, generating a p25 form. The cleavage of p35 into p25 results in relocalization of the protein from the cell periphery to nuclear and perinuclear regions. P25 deregulates CDK5 activity by prolonging its activation and changing its cellular location. The p25 form accumulates in the brain neurons of patients with Alzheimer's disease. This accumulation correlates with an increase in CDK5 kinase activity, and may lead to aberrantly phosphorylated forms of the microtubule-associated protein tau, which contributes to Alzheimer's disease.
CDK6	The protein encoded by this gene is a member of the CMGC family of serine/threonine protein kinases. This kinase is a catalytic subunit of the protein kinase complex that is important for cell cycle G1 phase progression and G1/S transition. The activity of this kinase first appears in mid-G1 phase, which is controlled by the regulatory subunits including D-type cyclins and members of INK4 family of CDK inhibitors. This kinase, as well as CDK4, has been shown to phosphorylate, and thus regulate the activity of, tumor suppressor protein Rb. Altered expression of this gene has been observed in multiple human cancers. A mutation in this gene resulting in reduced cell proliferation, and impaired cell motility and polarity, and has been identified in patients with primary microcephaly.
CDK7	The protein encoded by this gene is a member of the cyclin-dependent protein kinase (CDK) family. CDK family members are highly similar to the gene products of Saccharomyces cerevisiae cdc28, and Schizosaccharomyces pombe cdc2, and are known to be important regulators of cell cycle progression. This protein forms a trimeric complex with cyclin H and MAT1, which functions as a Cdk-activating kinase (CAK). It is an essential component of the transcription factor TFIIH, that is involved in transcription initiation and DNA repair. This protein is thought to serve as a direct link between the regulation of transcription and the cell cycle.
CDK8	This gene encodes a member of the cyclin-dependent protein kinase (CDK) family. CDK family members are known to be important regulators of cell cycle progression. This kinase and its regulatory subunit, cyclin C, are components of the Mediator transcriptional regulatory complex, involved in both transcriptional activation and repression by phosphorylation of the carboxy-terminal domain of the largest subunit of RNA polymerase II. This kinase regulates transcription by targeting the cyclin-dependent kinase 7 subunits of the general transcription initiation factor IIH, thus providing a link between the Mediator complex and the basal transcription machinery. Multiple pseudogenes of this gene have been identified. Alternative splicing results in multiple transcript variants.
CDK9	The protein encoded by this gene is a member of the cyclin-dependent protein kinase (CDK) family. CDK family members are highly similar to the gene products of S. cerevisiae cdc28, and S. pombe cdc2, and known as important cell cycle regulators. This kinase was found to be a component of the multiprotein complex TAK/P-TEFb, which is an elongation factor for RNA polymerase II-directed transcription and functions by phosphorylating the C-terminal domain of the largest subunit of RNA polymerase II. This protein forms a complex with and is regulated by its regulatory subunit cyclin T or cyclin K. HIV-1 Tat protein was found to interact with this protein and cyclin T, which suggested a possible involvement of this protein in AIDS.
CDKL1	This gene product is a member of a large family of CDC2-related serine/threonine protein kinases that accumulates primarily in the nucleus.
CDKL2	This gene product is a member of a large family of CDC2-related serine/threonine protein kinases. It accumulates primarily in the cytoplasm, with lower levels in the nucleus.
CDKL3	The protein encoded by this gene is a member of cyclin-dependent protein kinase (CDK) family. CDK family members are highly similar to the gene products of Saccharomyces cerevisiae cdc28, and Schizosaccharomyces pombe cdc2, and are known to be important regulators of cell cycle progression. This gene was identified as a gene absent in leukemic patients with chromosome 5q deletion. This loss may be an important determinant of dysmyelopoiesis. Alternative splicing results in multiple transcript variants encoding different isoforms.
CDKL5	This gene is a member of Ser/Thr protein kinase family and encodes a phosphorylated protein with protein kinase activity. Mutations in this gene have been associated with X-linked infantile spasm syndrome (ISSX), also known as X-linked West syndrome, and Rett syndrome (RTT). Alternate transcriptional splice variants have been characterized.
CDKN1A	This gene encodes a potent cyclin-dependent kinase inhibitor. The encoded protein binds to and inhibits the activity of cyclin-cyclin-dependent kinase2 or -cyclin-dependent kinase4 complexes, and thus functions as a regulator of cell cycle progression at G1. The expression of this gene is tightly controlled by the tumor suppressor protein p53, through which this protein mediates the p53-dependent cell cycle G1 phase arrest in response to a variety of stress stimuli. This protein can interact with proliferating cell nuclear antigen, a DNA polymerase accessory factor, and plays a regulatory role in S phase DNA replication and DNA damage repair. This protein was reported to be specifically cleaved by CASP3-like caspases, which thus leads to a dramatic activation of cyclin-dependent kinase2, and may be instrumental in the execution of apoptosis following caspase activation. Mice that lack this gene have the ability to regenerate damaged or missing tissue. Multiple alternatively spliced variants have been found for this gene.
CDKN1B	This gene encodes a cyclin-dependent kinase inhibitor, which shares a limited similarity with CDK inhibitor CDKN1A/p21. The encoded protein binds to and prevents the activation of cyclin E-CDK2 or cyclin D-CDK4 complexes, and thus controls the cell cycle progression at G1. The degradation of this protein, which is triggered by its CDK dependent phosphorylation and subsequent ubiquitination by SCF complexes, is required for the cellular transition from quiescence to the proliferative state. Mutations in this gene are associated with multiple endocrine neoplasia type IV (MEN4).
CDYL	Chromodomain Y is a primate-specific Y-chromosomal gene family expressed exclusively in the testis and implicated in infertility. Although the Y-linked genes are testis-specific, this autosomal gene is ubiquitously expressed. The Y-linked genes arose by retrotransposition of an mRNA from this gene, followed by amplification of the retroposed gene. Proteins encoded by this gene superfamily possess a chromodomain, a motif implicated in chromatin binding and gene suppression, and a catalytic domain believed to be involved in histone acetylation. Multiple proteins are encoded by transcript variants of this gene.
CDYL2	This gene is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with CDYL2 include Prostate Cancer. Predicted to enable transcription corepressor activity. Predicted to be involved in negative regulation of transcription, DNA-templated. Predicted to be active in nucleus.
CEACAM5	This gene encodes a cell surface glycoprotein that represents the founding member of the carcinoembryonic antigen (CEA) family of proteins. The encoded protein is used as a clinical biomarker for gastrointestinal cancers and may promote tumor development through its role as a cell adhesion molecule. Additionally, the encoded protein may regulate differentiation, apoptosis, and cell polarity. This gene is present in a CEA family gene cluster on chromosome 19. Alternative splicing results in multiple transcript variants.
CECR2	This gene encodes a bromodomain-containing protein that is involved in chromatin remodeling, and may additionally play a role in DNA damage response. The encoded protein functions as part of an ATP-dependent complex that is involved in neurulation. This gene is a candidate gene for Cat Eye Syndrome. Alternative splicing results in multiple transcript variants.
CEL	The protein encoded by this gene is a glycoprotein secreted from the pancreas into the digestive tract and from the lactating mammary gland into human milk. The physiological role of this protein is in cholesterol and lipid-soluble vitamin ester hydrolysis and absorption. This encoded protein promotes large chylomicron production in the intestine. Also its presence in plasma suggests its interactions with cholesterol and oxidized lipoproteins to modulate the progression of atherosclerosis. In pancreatic tumoral cells, this encoded protein is thought to be sequestrated within the Golgi compartment and is probably not secreted. This gene contains a variable number of tandem repeat (VNTR) polymorphism in the coding region that may influence the function of the encoded protein.
CELA1	Elastases form a subfamily of serine proteases that hydrolyze many proteins in addition to elastin. Humans have six elastase genes which encode the structurally similar proteins elastase 1, 2, 2A, 2B, 3A, and 3B. Unlike other elastases, pancreatic elastase 1 is not expressed in the pancreas. To date, elastase 1 expression has only been detected in skin keratinocytes. Clinical literature that describes human elastase 1 activity in the pancreas or fecal material is actually referring to chymotrypsin-like elastase family, member 3B.
CENPE	Centrosome-associated protein E (CENPE) is a kinesin-like motor protein that accumulates in the G2 phase of the cell cycle. Unlike other centrosome-associated proteins, it is not present during interphase and first appears at the centromere region of chromosomes during prometaphase. This protein is required for stable spindle microtubule capture at kinetochores which is a necessary step in chromosome alignment during prometaphase. This protein also couples chromosome position to microtubule depolymerizing activity. Alternative splicing results in multiple transcript variants encoding distinct protein isoforms.
CERK	CERK converts ceramide to ceramide 1-phosphate (C1P), a sphingolipid metabolite. Both CERK and C1P have been implicated in various cellular processes, including proliferation, apoptosis, phagocytosis, and inflammation (Kim et al., 2006
CES1	This gene encodes a member of the carboxylesterase large family. The family members are responsible for the hydrolysis or transesterification of various xenobiotics, such as cocaine and heroin, and endogenous substrates with ester, thioester, or amide bonds. They may participate in fatty acyl and cholesterol ester metabolism, and may play a role in the blood-brain barrier system. This enzyme is the major liver enzyme and functions in liver drug clearance. Mutations of this gene cause carboxylesterase 1 deficiency. Three transcript variants encoding three different isoforms have been found for this gene.
CES2	This gene encodes a member of the carboxylesterase large family. The family members are responsible for the hydrolysis or transesterification of various xenobiotics, such as cocaine and heroin, and endogenous substrates with ester, thioester, or amide bonds. They may participate in fatty acyl and cholesterol ester metabolism, and may play a role in the blood-brain barrier system. The protein encoded by this gene is the major intestinal enzyme and functions in intestine drug clearance. Alternatively spliced transcript variants have been found for this gene.
CETP	The protein encoded by this gene is found in plasma, where it is involved in the transfer of cholesteryl ester from high density lipoprotein (HDL) to other lipoproteins. Defects in this gene are a cause of hyperalphalipoproteinemia 1 (HALP1). Two transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been found for this gene.
CFB	This gene encodes complement factor B, a component of the alternative pathway of complement activation. Factor B circulates in the blood as a single chain polypeptide. Upon activation of the alternative pathway, it is cleaved by complement factor D yielding the noncatalytic chain Ba and the catalytic subunit Bb. The active subunit Bb is a serine protease which associates with C3b to form the alternative pathway C3 convertase. Bb is involved in the proliferation of preactivated B lymphocytes, while Ba inhibits their proliferation. This gene localizes to the major histocompatibility complex (MHC) class III region on chromosome 6. This cluster includes several genes involved in regulation of the immune reaction. Polymorphisms in this gene are associated with a reduced risk of age-related macular degeneration. The polyadenylation site of this gene is 421 bp from the 5' end of the gene for complement component 2.
CFD	This gene encodes a member of the S1, or chymotrypsin, family of serine peptidases. This protease catalyzes the cleavage of factor B, the rate-limiting step of the alternative pathway of complement activation. This protein also functions as an adipokine, a cell signaling protein secreted by adipocytes, which regulates insulin secretion in mice. Mutations in this gene underlie complement factor D deficiency, which is associated with recurrent bacterial meningitis infections in human patients. Alternative splicing of this gene results in multiple transcript variants. At least one of these variants encodes a preproprotein that is proteolytically processed to generate the mature protease.
CFH	This gene is a member of the Regulator of Complement Activation (RCA) gene cluster and encodes a protein with twenty short consensus repeat (SCR) domains. This protein is secreted into the bloodstream and has an essential role in the regulation of complement activation, restricting this innate defense mechanism to microbial infections. Mutations in this gene have been associated with hemolytic-uremic syndrome (HUS) and chronic hypocomplementemic nephropathy. Alternate transcriptional splice variants, encoding different isoforms, have been characterized.
CFL1	The protein encoded by this gene can polymerize and depolymerize F-actin and G-actin in a pH-dependent manner. Increased phosphorylation of this protein by LIM kinase aids in Rho-induced reorganization of the actin cytoskeleton. Cofilin is a widely distributed intracellular actin-modulating protein that binds and depolymerizes filamentous F-actin and inhibits the polymerization of monomeric G-actin in a pH-dependent manner. It is involved in the translocation of actin-cofilin complex from cytoplasm to nucleus.
CFLAR	The protein encoded by this gene is a regulator of apoptosis and is structurally similar to caspase-8. However, the encoded protein lacks caspase activity and appears to be itself cleaved into two peptides by caspase-8. Several transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been found for this gene, and partial evidence for several more variants exists.
CFTR	This gene encodes a member of the ATP-binding cassette (ABC) transporter superfamily. The encoded protein functions as a chloride channel, making it unique among members of this protein family, and controls ion and water secretion and absorption in epithelial tissues. Channel activation is mediated by cycles of regulatory domain phosphorylation, ATP-binding by the nucleotide-binding domains, and ATP hydrolysis. Mutations in this gene cause cystic fibrosis, the most common lethal genetic disorder in populations of Northern European descent. The most frequently occurring mutation in cystic fibrosis, DeltaF508, results in impaired folding and trafficking of the encoded protein. Multiple pseudogenes have been identified in the human genome.
CGA	The four human glycoprotein hormones chorionic gonadotropin (CG), luteinizing hormone (LH), follicle stimulating hormone (FSH), and thyroid stimulating hormone (TSH) are dimers consisting of alpha and beta subunits that are associated noncovalently. The alpha subunits of these hormones are identical, however, their beta chains are unique and confer biological specificity. The protein encoded by this gene is the alpha subunit and belongs to the glycoprotein hormones alpha chain family. Two transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been found for this gene.
CHAT	This gene encodes an enzyme which catalyzes the biosynthesis of the neurotransmitter acetylcholine. This gene product is a characteristic feature of cholinergic neurons, and changes in these neurons may explain some of the symptoms of Alzheimer's disease. Polymorphisms in this gene have been associated with Alzheimer's disease and mild cognitive impairment. Mutations in this gene are associated with congenital myasthenic syndrome associated with episodic apnea. Multiple transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been found for this gene, and some of these variants have been shown to encode more than one isoform.
CHEK1	The protein encoded by this gene belongs to the Ser/Thr protein kinase family. It is required for checkpoint mediated cell cycle arrest in response to DNA damage or the presence of unreplicated DNA. This protein acts to integrate signals from ATM and ATR, two cell cycle proteins involved in DNA damage responses, that also associate with chromatin in meiotic prophase I. Phosphorylation of CDC25A protein phosphatase by this protein is required for cells to delay cell cycle progression in response to double-strand DNA breaks. Several alternatively spliced transcript variants have been found for this gene.
CHEK2	In response to DNA damage and replication blocks, cell cycle progression is halted through the control of critical cell cycle regulators. The protein encoded by this gene is a cell cycle checkpoint regulator and putative tumor suppressor. It contains a forkhead-associated protein interaction domain essential for activation in response to DNA damage and is rapidly phosphorylated in response to replication blocks and DNA damage. When activated, the encoded protein is known to inhibit CDC25C phosphatase, preventing entry into mitosis, and has been shown to stabilize the tumor suppressor protein p53, leading to cell cycle arrest in G1. In addition, this protein interacts with and phosphorylates BRCA1, allowing BRCA1 to restore survival after DNA damage. Mutations in this gene have been linked with Li-Fraumeni syndrome, a highly penetrant familial cancer phenotype usually associated with inherited mutations in TP53. Also, mutations in this gene are thought to confer a predisposition to sarcomas, breast cancer, and brain tumors. This nuclear protein is a member of the CDS1 subfamily of serine/threonine protein kinases. Several transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been found for this gene.
CHIA	The protein encoded by this gene degrades chitin, which is found in the cell wall of most fungi as well as in arthropods and some nematodes. The encoded protein can also stimulate interleukin 13 expression, and variations in this gene can lead to asthma susceptibility. Several transcript variants encoding a few different isoforms have been found for this gene.
CHIT1	Chitotriosidase is secreted by activated human macrophages and is markedly elevated in plasma of Gaucher disease patients. The expression of chitotriosidase occurs only at a late stage of differentiation of monocytes to activated macrophages in culture. Human macrophages can synthesize a functional chitotriosidase, a highly conserved enzyme with a strongly regulated expression. This enzyme may play a role in the degradation of chitin-containing pathogens. Several alternatively spliced transcript variants have been described for this gene.
CHKA	The major pathway for the biosynthesis of phosphatidylcholine occurs via the CDP-choline pathway. The protein encoded by this gene is the initial enzyme in the sequence and may play a regulatory role. The encoded protein also catalyzes the phosphorylation of ethanolamine. Two transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been found for this gene.
CHKB	Choline kinase (CK) and ethanolamine kinase (EK) catalyze the phosphorylation of choline/ethanolamine to phosphocholine/phosphoethanolamine. This is the first enzyme in the biosynthesis of phosphatidylcholine/phosphatidylethanolamine in all animal cells. The highly purified CKs from mammalian sources and their recombinant gene products have been shown to have EK activity also, indicating that both activities reside on the same protein. The choline kinase-like protein encoded by CHKL belongs to the choline/ethanolamine kinase family; however, its exact function is not known. Read-through transcripts are expressed from this locus that include exons from the downstream CPT1B locus.
CHN2	This gene encodes a guanosine triphosphate (GTP)-metabolizing protein that contains a phorbol-ester/diacylglycerol (DAG)-type zinc finger, a Rho-GAP domain, and an SH2 domain. The encoded protein translocates from the cytosol to the Golgi apparatus membrane upon binding by diacylglycerol (DAG). Activity of this protein is important in cell proliferation and migration, and expression changes in this gene have been detected in cancers. A mutation in this gene has also been associated with schizophrenia in men. Alternative transcript splicing and the use of alternative promoters results in multiple transcript variants.
CHRM1	The muscarinic cholinergic receptors belong to a larger family of G protein-coupled receptors. The functional diversity of these receptors is defined by the binding of acetylcholine and includes cellular responses such as adenylate cyclase inhibition, phosphoinositide degeneration, and potassium channel mediation. Muscarinic receptors influence many effects of acetylcholine in the central and peripheral nervous system. The muscarinic cholinergic receptor 1 is involved in mediation of vagally-induced bronchoconstriction and in the acid secretion of the gastrointestinal tract. The gene encoding this receptor is localized to 11q13.
CHRM2	The muscarinic cholinergic receptors belong to a larger family of G protein-coupled receptors. The functional diversity of these receptors is defined by the binding of acetylcholine to these receptors and includes cellular responses such as adenylate cyclase inhibition, phosphoinositide degeneration, and potassium channel mediation. Muscarinic receptors influence many effects of acetylcholine in the central and peripheral nervous system. The muscarinic cholinergic receptor 2 is involved in mediation of bradycardia and a decrease in cardiac contractility. Multiple alternatively spliced transcript variants have been described for this gene.
CHRM3	The muscarinic cholinergic receptors belong to a larger family of G protein-coupled receptors. The functional diversity of these receptors is defined by the binding of acetylcholine and includes cellular responses such as adenylate cyclase inhibition, phosphoinositide degeneration, and potassium channel mediation. Muscarinic receptors influence many effects of acetylcholine in the central and peripheral nervous system. The muscarinic cholinergic receptor 3 controls smooth muscle contraction and its stimulation causes secretion of glandular tissue. Alternative promoter use and alternative splicing results in multiple transcript variants that have different tissue specificities.
CHRM4	The muscarinic cholinergic receptors belong to a larger family of G protein-coupled receptors. The functional diversity of these receptors is defined by the binding of acetylcholine and includes cellular responses such as adenylate cyclase inhibition, phosphoinositide degeneration, and potassium channel mediation. Muscarinic receptors influence many effects of acetylcholine in the central and peripheral nervous system. The clinical implications of this receptor are unknown; however, mouse studies link its function to adenylyl cyclase inhibition.
CHRM5	The muscarinic cholinergic receptors belong to a larger family of G protein-coupled receptors. The functional diversity of these receptors is defined by the binding of acetylcholine and includes cellular responses such as adenylate cyclase inhibition, phosphoinositide degeneration, and potassium channel mediation. Muscarinic receptors influence many effects of acetylcholine in the central and peripheral nervous system. The clinical implications of this receptor are unknown; however, stimulation of this receptor is known to increase cyclic AMP levels.
CHRNA1	The muscle acetylcholine receptor consiststs of 5 subunits of 4 different types: 2 alpha subunits and 1 each of the beta, gamma, and delta subunits. This gene encodes an alpha subunit that plays a role in acetlycholine binding/channel gating. Alternatively spliced transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been identified.
CHRNA10	Ionotropic receptor with a probable role in the modulation of auditory stimuli. Agonist binding may induce an extensive change in conformation that affects all subunits and leads to opening of an ion-conducting channel across the plasma membrane. The channel is permeable to a range of divalent cations including calcium, the influx of which may activate a potassium current which hyperpolarizes the cell membrane. In the ear, this may lead to a reduction in basilar membrane motion, altering the activity of auditory nerve fibers and reducing the range of dynamic hearing. This may protect against acoustic trauma.
CHRNA3	This locus encodes a member of the nicotinic acetylcholine receptor family of proteins. Members of this family of proteins form pentameric complexes comprised of both alpha and beta subunits. This locus encodes an alpha-type subunit, as it contains characteristic adjacent cysteine residues. The encoded protein is a ligand-gated ion channel that likely plays a role in neurotransmission. Polymorphisms in this gene have been associated with an increased risk of smoking initiation and an increased susceptibility to lung cancer. Alternatively spliced transcript variants have been described.
CHRNA4	This gene encodes a nicotinic acetylcholine receptor, which belongs to a superfamily of ligand-gated ion channels that play a role in fast signal transmission at synapses. These pentameric receptors can bind acetylcholine, which causes an extensive change in conformation that leads to the opening of an ion-conducting channel across the plasma membrane. This protein is an integral membrane receptor subunit that can interact with either nAChR beta-2 or nAChR beta-4 to form a functional receptor. Mutations in this gene cause nocturnal frontal lobe epilepsy type 1. Polymorphisms in this gene that provide protection against nicotine addiction have been described. Alternative splicing results in multiple transcript variants.
CHRNA5	The protein encoded by this gene is a nicotinic acetylcholine receptor subunit and a member of a superfamily of ligand-gated ion channels that mediate fast signal transmission at synapses. These receptors are thought to be heteropentamers composed of separate but similar subunits. Defects in this gene have been linked to susceptibility to lung cancer type 2 (LNCR2).
CHRNA7	The nicotinic acetylcholine receptors (nAChRs) are members of a superfamily of ligand-gated ion channels that mediate fast signal transmission at synapses. The nAChRs are thought to be hetero-pentamers composed of homologous subunits. The proposed structure for each subunit is a conserved N-terminal extracellular domain followed by three conserved transmembrane domains, a variable cytoplasmic loop, a fourth conserved transmembrane domain, and a short C-terminal extracellular region. The protein encoded by this gene forms a homo-oligomeric channel, displays marked permeability to calcium ions and is a major component of brain nicotinic receptors that are blocked by, and highly sensitive to, alpha-bungarotoxin. Once this receptor binds acetylcholine, it undergoes an extensive change in conformation that affects all subunits and leads to opening of an ion-conducting channel across the plasma membrane. This gene is located in a region identified as a major susceptibility locus for juvenile myoclonic epilepsy and a chromosomal location involved in the genetic transmission of schizophrenia. An evolutionarily recent partial duplication event in this region results in a hybrid containing sequence from this gene and a novel FAM7A gene. Alternative splicing results in multiple transcript variants.
CHRNA9	This gene is a member of the ligand-gated ionic channel family and nicotinic acetylcholine receptor gene superfamily. It encodes a plasma membrane protein that forms homo- or hetero-oligomeric divalent cation channels. This protein is involved in cochlea hair cell development and is also expressed in the outer hair cells (OHCs) of the adult cochlea.
CHRNB1	The muscle acetylcholine receptor is composed of five subunits: two alpha subunits and one beta, one gamma, and one delta subunit. This gene encodes the beta subunit of the acetylcholine receptor. The acetylcholine receptor changes conformation upon acetylcholine binding leading to the opening of an ion-conducting channel across the plasma membrane. Mutations in this gene are associated with slow-channel congenital myasthenic syndrome.
CHRNB2	Neuronal acetylcholine receptors are homo- or heteropentameric complexes composed of homologous alpha and beta subunits. They belong to a superfamily of ligand-gated ion channels which allow the flow of sodium and potassium across the plasma membrane in response to ligands such as acetylcholine and nicotine. This gene encodes one of several beta subunits. Mutations in this gene are associated with autosomal dominant nocturnal frontal lobe epilepsy.
CHRNB4	This gene is found within a conserved gene cluster and encodes one of the beta subunits of the nicotinic acetylcholine receptor (nAChRs) superfamily which form ligand-gated ion channels with a central pore that forms a cation channel. Neuronal nAChRs are pentameric structures that can be either homomeric or heteromeric, with heteromeric structures containing both alpha and beta subunits. Each subunit contains an extracellular amino terminus and four transmembrane domains. Nicotine is one of the agonists that binds to the receptor. Variants in this gene have been associated with nicotine dependence and lung cancer. Alternative splicing results in multiple transcript variants encoding different isoforms.
CHRND	The acetylcholine receptor of muscle has 5 subunits of 4 different types: 2 alpha and 1 each of beta, gamma and delta subunits. After acetylcholine binding, the receptor undergoes an extensive conformation change that affects all subunits and leads to opening of an ion-conducting channel across the plasma membrane. Defects in this gene are a cause of multiple pterygium syndrome lethal type (MUPSL), congenital myasthenic syndrome slow-channel type (SCCMS), and congenital myasthenic syndrome fast-channel type (FCCMS). Several transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been found for this gene.
CHRNE	Acetylcholine receptors at mature mammalian neuromuscular junctions are pentameric protein complexes composed of four subunits in the ratio of two alpha subunits to one beta, one epsilon, and one delta subunit. The acetylcholine receptor changes subunit composition shortly after birth when the epsilon subunit replaces the gamma subunit seen in embryonic receptors. Mutations in the epsilon subunit are associated with congenital myasthenic syndrome.
CHST4	This gene encodes an N-acetylglucosamine 6-O sulfotransferase. The encoded enzyme transfers sulfate from 3'phosphoadenosine 5'phospho-sulfate to the 6-hydroxyl group of N-acetylglucosamine on glycoproteins. This protein is localized to the Golgi and is involved in the modification of glycan structures on ligands of the lymphocyte homing receptor L-selectin. Alternate splicing in the 5' UTR results in multiple transcript variants that encode the same protein.
CHUK	This gene encodes a member of the serine/threonine protein kinase family. The encoded protein, a component of a cytokine-activated protein complex that is an inhibitor of the essential transcription factor NF-kappa-B complex, phosphorylates sites that trigger the degradation of the inhibitor via the ubiquination pathway, thereby activating the transcription factor.
CISD1	This gene encodes a protein with a CDGSH iron-sulfur domain and has been shown to bind a redox-active
CIT	This gene encodes a serine/threonine-protein kinase that functions in cell division. Together with the kinesin KIF14, this protein localizes to the central spindle and midbody, and functions to promote efficient cytokinesis. This protein is involved in central nervous system development. Polymorphisms in this gene are associated with bipolar disorder and risk for schizophrenia. Alternative splicing results in multiple transcript variants.
CKB	The protein encoded by this gene is a cytoplasmic enzyme involved in energy homeostasis. The encoded protein reversibly catalyzes the transfer of phosphate between ATP and various phosphogens such as creatine phosphate. It acts as a homodimer in brain as well as in other tissues, and as a heterodimer with a similar muscle isozyme in heart. The encoded protein is a member of the ATP:guanido phosphotransferase protein family. A pseudogene of this gene has been characterized.
CKM	The protein encoded by this gene is a cytoplasmic enzyme involved in energy homeostasis and is an important serum marker for myocardial infarction. The encoded protein reversibly catalyzes the transfer of phosphate between ATP and various phosphogens such as creatine phosphate. It acts as a homodimer in striated muscle as well as in other tissues, and as a heterodimer with a similar brain isozyme in heart. The encoded protein is a member of the ATP:guanido phosphotransferase protein family.
CKS1B	CKS1B protein binds to the catalytic subunit of the cyclin dependent kinases and is essential for their biological function. The CKS1B mRNA is found to be expressed in different patterns through the cell cycle in HeLa cells, which reflects a specialized role for the encoded protein. At least two transcript variants have been identified for this gene, and it appears that only one of them encodes a protein.
CLCA1	This gene encodes a member of the calcium sensitive chloride conductance protein family. To date, all members of this gene family map to the same region on chromosome 1p31-p22 and share a high degree of homology in size, sequence, and predicted structure, but differ significantly in their tissue distributions. The encoded protein is expressed as a precursor protein that is processed into two cell-surface-associated subunits, although the site at which the precursor is cleaved has not been precisely determined. The encoded protein may be involved in mediating calcium-activated chloride conductance in the intestine.
CLCN2	This gene encodes a voltage-gated chloride channel. The encoded protein is a transmembrane protein that maintains chloride ion homeostasis in various cells. Defects in this gene may be a cause of certain epilepsies. Four transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been found for this gene.
CLCN3	This gene encodes a member of the voltage-gated chloride channel (ClC) family. The encoded protein is present in all cell types and localized in plasma membranes and in intracellular vesicles. It is a multi-pass membrane protein which contains a ClC domain and two additional C-terminal CBS (cystathionine beta-synthase) domains. The ClC domain catalyzes the selective flow of Cl- ions across cell membranes, and the CBS domain may have a regulatory function. This protein plays a role in both acidification and transmitter loading of GABAergic synaptic vesicles, and in smooth muscle cell activation and neointima formation. This protein is required for lysophosphatidic acid (LPA)-activated Cl- current activity and fibroblast-to-myofibroblast differentiation. The protein activity is regulated by Ca(2+)/calmodulin-dependent protein kinase II (CaMKII) in glioma cells. Multiple alternatively spliced transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been identified.
CLDN18	This gene encodes a member of the claudin family. Claudins are integral membrane proteins and components of tight junction strands. Tight junction strands serve as a physical barrier to prevent solutes and water from passing freely through the paracellular space between epithelial or endothelial cell sheets, and also play critical roles in maintaining cell polarity and signal transductions. This gene is upregulated in patients with ulcerative colitis and highly overexpressed in infiltrating ductal adenocarcinomas. PKC/MAPK/AP-1 (protein kinase C/mitogen-activated protein kinase/activator protein-1) dependent pathway regulates the expression of this gene in gastric cells. Alternatively spliced transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been identified.
CLEC4C	This gene encodes a member of the C-type lectin/C-type lectin-like domain (CTL/CTLD) superfamily. Members of this family share a common protein fold and have diverse functions, such as cell adhesion, cell-cell signalling, glycoprotein turnover, and roles in inflammation and immune response. The encoded type 2 transmembrane protein may play a role in dendritic cell function. Two transcript variants encoding distinct isoforms have been identified for this gene.
CLEC4M	This gene encodes a transmembrane receptor and is often referred to as L-SIGN because of its expression in the endothelial cells of the lymph nodes and liver. The encoded protein is involved in the innate immune system and recognizes numerous evolutionarily divergent pathogens ranging from parasites to viruses, with a large impact on public health. The protein is organized into three distinct domains: an N-terminal transmembrane domain, a tandem-repeat neck domain and C-type lectin carbohydrate recognition domain. The extracellular region consisting of the C-type lectin and neck domains has a dual function as a pathogen recognition receptor and a cell adhesion receptor by binding carbohydrate ligands on the surface of microbes and endogenous cells. The neck region is important for homo-oligomerization which allows the receptor to bind multivalent ligands with high avidity. Variations in the number of 23 amino acid repeats in the neck domain of this protein are common and have a significant impact on ligand binding ability. This gene is closely related in terms of both sequence and function to a neighboring gene (GeneID 30835; often referred to as DC-SIGN or CD209). DC-SIGN and L-SIGN differ in their ligand-binding properties and distribution. Alternative splicing results in multiple variants.
CLEC6A	The protein encoded by this gene is a type II membrane receptor with an extracellular C-type lectin-like domain fold. The extracellular portion binds structures with a high mannose content and has been shown to recognize several pathogens, including C. elegans, S. cerevisiae, M. tuberculosis, C. neoformans, and house dust mite. When stimulated, the encoded protein initiates signalling through the CARD9-Bcl10-Malt1 pathway, leading to the induction of cytokines. Two transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been found for this gene.
CLEC7A	This gene encodes a member of the C-type lectin/C-type lectin-like domain (CTL/CTLD) superfamily. The encoded glycoprotein is a small type II membrane receptor with an extracellular C-type lectin-like domain fold and a cytoplasmic domain with an immunoreceptor tyrosine-based activation motif. It functions as a pattern-recognition receptor that recognizes a variety of beta-1,3-linked and beta-1,6-linked glucans from fungi and plants, and in this way plays a role in innate immune response. Alternate transcriptional splice variants, encoding different isoforms, have been characterized. This gene is closely linked to other CTL/CTLD superfamily members on chromosome 12p13 in the natural killer gene complex region.
CLK1	This gene encodes a member of the CDC2-like (or LAMMER) family of dual specificity protein kinases. In the nucleus, the encoded protein phosphorylates serine/arginine-rich proteins involved in pre-mRNA processing, releasing them into the nucleoplasm. The choice of splice sites during pre-mRNA processing may be regulated by the concentration of transacting factors, including serine/arginine rich proteins. Therefore, the encoded protein may play an indirect role in governing splice site selection. Multiple transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been found for this gene.
CLK2	This gene encodes a dual specificity protein kinase that phosphorylates serine/threonine and tyrosine-containing substrates. Activity of this protein regulates serine- and arginine-rich (SR) proteins of the spliceosomal complex, thereby influencing alternative transcript splicing. Chromosomal translocations have been characterized between this locus and the PAFAH1B3 (platelet-activating factor acetylhydrolase 1b, catalytic subunit 3 (29kDa)) gene on chromosome 19, resulting in the production of a fusion protein. Note that this gene is distinct from the TELO2 gene (GeneID:9894), which shares the CLK2 alias, but encodes a protein that is involved in telomere length regulation. There is a pseudogene for this gene on chromosome 7. Alternative splicing results in multiple transcript variants.
CLK3	This gene encodes a protein belonging to the serine/threonine type protein kinase family. This protein is a nuclear dual-specificity kinase that regulates the intranuclear distribution of the serine/arginine-rich (SR) family of splicing factors. Two transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been found for this gene. Related pseudogenes are located on chromosomes 1 and 9.
CLK4	The protein encoded by this gene belongs to the CDC2-like protein kinase (CLK) family. This protein kinase can interact with and phosphorylate the serine- and arginine-rich (SR) proteins, which are known to play an important role in the formation of spliceosomes, and thus may be involved in the regulation of alternative splicing. Studies in the Israeli sand rat Psammomys obesus suggested that the ubiquitin-like 5 (UBL5/BEACON), a highly conserved ubiquitin-like protein, may interact with and regulate the activity of this kinase. Multiple alternatively spliced transcript variants have been observed, but the full-length natures of which have not yet been determined.
CLPX	The protein encoded by this gene is part of a protease found in mitochondria. This protease is ATP-dependent and targets specific proteins for degradation. The protease consists of two heptameric rings of the CLPP catalytic subunit sandwiched between two hexameric rings of the chaperone subunit encoded by this gene. Targeted proteins are unwound by this protein and then passed on to the CLPP subunit for degradation. Two transcript variants, one protein-coding and the other non-protein coding, have been found for this gene.
CLTC	 Clathrin is a major protein component of the cytoplasmic face of intracellular organelles, called coated vesicles and coated pits. These specialized organelles are involved in the intracellular trafficking of receptors and endocytosis of a variety of macromolecules.  The basic subunit of the clathrin coat is composed of three heavy chains and three light chains.
CMA1	This gene encodes a chymotryptic serine proteinase that belongs to the peptidase family S1. It is expressed in mast cells and is thought to function in the degradation of the extracellular matrix, the regulation of submucosal gland secretion, and the generation of vasoactive peptides. In the heart and blood vessels, this protein, rather than angiotensin converting enzyme, is largely responsible for converting angiotensin I to the vasoactive peptide angiotensin II. Alternative splicing results in multiple variants.
CMKLR1	Receptor for the chemoattractant adipokine chemerin/RARRES2 and for the omega-3 fatty acid derived molecule resolvin E1. Interaction with RARRES2 induces activation of intracellular signaling molecules, such as SKY, MAPK1/3 (ERK1/2), MAPK14/P38MAPK and PI3K leading to multifunctional effects, like, reduction of immune responses, enhancing of adipogenesis and angionesis. Resolvin E1 down-regulates cytokine production in macrophages by reducing the activation of MAPK1/3 (ERK1/2) and NF-kappa-B. Positively regulates adipogenesis and adipocyte metabolism. Acts as a coreceptor for several SIV strains (SIVMAC316, SIVMAC239, SIVMACL7E-FR and SIVSM62A), as well as a primary HIV-1 strain (92UG024-2).
CMPK1	This gene encodes one of the enzymes required for cellular nucleic acid biosynthesis. This enzyme catalyzes the transfer of a phosphate group from ATP to CMP, UMP, or dCMP, to form the corresponding diphosphate nucleotide. Alternate splicing results in both coding and non-coding transcript variants.
CNOT6	This gene encodes the catalytic component of the CCR4-NOT core transcriptional regulation complex. The encoded protein has a 3'-5' RNase activity and prefers polyadenylated substrates. The CCR4-NOT complex plays a role in many cellular processes, including miRNA-mediated repression, mRNA degradation, and transcriptional regulation.
CNOT7	The protein encoded by this gene binds to an anti-proliferative protein, B-cell translocation protein 1, which negatively regulates cell proliferation. Binding of the two proteins, which is driven by phosphorylation of the anti-proliferative protein, causes signaling events in cell division that lead to changes in cell proliferation associated with cell-cell contact. The encoded protein downregulates the innate immune response and therefore provides a therapeutic target for enhancing its antimicrobial activity against foreign agents. Alternative splicing of this gene results in multiple transcript variants. Related pseudogenes have been identified on chromosomes 1 and X.
CNR1	This gene encodes one of two cannabinoid receptors. The cannabinoids, principally delta-9-tetrahydrocannabinol and synthetic analogs, are psychoactive ingredients of marijuana. The cannabinoid receptors are members of the guanine-nucleotide-binding protein (G-protein) coupled receptor family, which inhibit adenylate cyclase activity in a dose-dependent, stereoselective and pertussis toxin-sensitive manner. The two receptors have been found to be involved in the cannabinoid-induced CNS effects (including alterations in mood and cognition) experienced by users of marijuana. Multiple transcript variants encoding two different protein isoforms have been described for this gene.
CNR2	The cannabinoid delta-9-tetrahydrocannabinol is the principal psychoactive ingredient of marijuana. The proteins encoded by this gene and the cannabinoid receptor 1 (brain) (CNR1) gene have the characteristics of a guanine nucleotide-binding protein (G-protein)-coupled receptor for cannabinoids. They inhibit adenylate cyclase activity in a dose-dependent, stereoselective, and pertussis toxin-sensitive manner. These proteins have been found to be involved in the cannabinoid-induced CNS effects (including alterations in mood and cognition) experienced by users of marijuana. The cannabinoid receptors are members of family 1 of the G-protein-coupled receptors.
COL1A2	This gene encodes the pro-alpha2 chain of type I collagen whose triple helix comprises two alpha1 chains and one alpha2 chain. Type I is a fibril-forming collagen found in most connective tissues and is abundant in bone, cornea, dermis and tendon. Mutations in this gene are associated with osteogenesis imperfecta types I-IV, Ehlers-Danlos syndrome type VIIB, recessive Ehlers-Danlos syndrome Classical type, idiopathic osteoporosis, and atypical Marfan syndrome. Symptoms associated with mutations in this gene, however, tend to be less severe than mutations in the gene for the alpha1 chain of type I collagen (COL1A1) reflecting the different role of alpha2 chains in matrix integrity. Three transcripts, resulting from the use of alternate polyadenylation signals, have been identified for this gene.
COL4A3BP	This gene is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with COL4A3 include Alport Syndrome 3, Autosomal Dominant and Alport Syndrome 2, Autosomal Recessive. Among its related pathways are ECM proteoglycans and Integrins in angiogenesis. Type IV collagen, the major structural component of basement membranes, is a multimeric protein composed of 3 alpha subunits.
COL4A4	This gene encodes one of the six subunits of type IV collagen, the major structural component of basement membranes. This particular collagen IV subunit, however, is only found in a subset of basement membranes. Like the other members of the type IV collagen gene family, this gene is organized in a head-to-head conformation with another type IV collagen gene so that each gene pair shares a common promoter. Mutations in this gene are associated with type II autosomal recessive Alport syndrome (hereditary glomerulonephropathy) and with familial benign hematuria (thin basement membrane disease). Two transcripts, differing only in their transcription start sites, have been identified for this gene and, as is common for collagen genes, multiple polyadenylation sites are found in the 3' UTR.
COL6A6	This gene encodes a large protein that contains multiple von Willebrand factor domains and forms a component of the basal lamina of epithelial cells. This protein may regulate epithelial cell-fibronectin interactions. Variation in this gene may be implicated in skin diseases.
COMT	Catechol-O-methyltransferase catalyzes the transfer of a methyl group from S-adenosylmethionine to catecholamines, including the neurotransmitters dopamine, epinephrine, and norepinephrine. This O-methylation results in one of the major degradative pathways of the catecholamine transmitters. In addition to its role in the metabolism of endogenous substances, COMT is important in the metabolism of catechol drugs used in the treatment of hypertension, asthma, and Parkinson disease. COMT is found in two forms in tissues, a soluble form (S-COMT) and a membrane-bound form (MB-COMT). The differences between S-COMT and MB-COMT reside within the N-termini. Several transcript variants are formed through the use of alternative translation initiation sites and promoters.
COPS7B	Component of the COP9 signalosome complex (CSN), a complex involved in various cellular and developmental processes. The CSN complex is an essential regulator of the ubiquitin (Ubl) conjugation pathway by mediating the deneddylation of the cullin subunits of SCF-type E3 ligase complexes, leading to decrease the Ubl ligase activity of SCF-type complexes such as SCF, CSA or DDB2. The complex is also involved in phosphorylation of p53/TP53, JUN, I-kappa-B-alpha/NFKBIA, ITPK1 and IRF8/ICSBP, possibly via its association with CK2 and PKD kinases. CSN-dependent phosphorylation of TP53 and JUN promotes and protects degradation by the Ubl system, respectively.
CPA3	This gene encodes a member of the carboxypeptidase A family of zinc metalloproteases. The encoded preproprotein is proteolytically processed to generate a mature protease that is released by mast cells and may be involved in the degradation of endogenous proteins and the inactivation of venom-associated peptides. Expression of this gene may be elevated in human asthma patients.
CPB2	Carboxypeptidases are enzymes that hydrolyze C-terminal peptide bonds. The carboxypeptidase family includes metallo-, serine, and cysteine carboxypeptidases. According to their substrate specificity, these enzymes are referred to as carboxypeptidase A (cleaving aliphatic residues) or carboxypeptidase B (cleaving basic amino residues). The protein encoded by this gene is activated by trypsin and acts on carboxypeptidase B substrates. After thrombin activation, the mature protein downregulates fibrinolysis. Polymorphisms have been described for this gene and its promoter region. Alternate splicing results in multiple transcript variants.
CPM	The protein encoded by this gene is a membrane-bound arginine/lysine carboxypeptidase. Its expression is associated with monocyte to macrophage differentiation. This encoded protein contains hydrophobic regions at the amino and carboxy termini and has 6 potential asparagine-linked glycosylation sites. The active site residues of carboxypeptidases A and B are conserved in this protein. Three alternatively spliced transcript variants encoding the same protein have been described for this gene.
CPN1	Carboxypeptidase N is a plasma metallo-protease that cleaves basic amino acids from the C terminal of peptides and proteins. The enzyme is important in the regulation of peptides like kinins and anaphylatoxins, and has also been known as kininase-1 and anaphylatoxin inactivator. This enzyme is a tetramer comprised of two identical regulatory subunits and two identical catalytic subunits; this gene encodes the catalytic subunit. Mutations in this gene can be associated with angioedema or chronic urticaria resulting from carboxypeptidase N deficiency.
CPOX	The protein encoded by this gene is the sixth enzyme of the heme biosynthetic pathway. The encoded enzyme is soluble and found in the intermembrane space of mitochondria. This enzyme catalyzes the stepwise oxidative decarboxylation of coproporphyrinogen III to protoporphyrinogen IX, a precursor of heme. Defects in this gene are a cause of hereditary coproporphyria (HCP).
CPS1	The mitochondrial enzyme encoded by this gene catalyzes synthesis of carbamoyl phosphate from ammonia and bicarbonate. This reaction is the first committed step of the urea cycle, which is important in the removal of excess urea from cells. The encoded protein may also represent a core mitochondrial nucleoid protein. Three transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been found for this gene. The shortest isoform may not be localized to the mitochondrion. Mutations in this gene have been associated with carbamoyl phosphate synthetase deficiency, susceptibility to persistent pulmonary hypertension, and susceptibility to venoocclusive disease after bone marrow transplantation.
CPT1A	The mitochondrial oxidation of long-chain fatty acids is initiated by the sequential action of carnitine palmitoyltransferase I (which is located in the outer membrane and is detergent-labile) and carnitine palmitoyltransferase II (which is located in the inner membrane and is detergent-stable), together with a carnitine-acylcarnitine translocase. CPT I is the key enzyme in the carnitine-dependent transport across the mitochondrial inner membrane and its deficiency results in a decreased rate of fatty acid beta-oxidation. Alternatively spliced transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been found for this gene.
CPT1B	The protein encoded by this gene, a member of the carnitine/choline acetyltransferase family, is the rate-controlling enzyme of the long-chain fatty acid beta-oxidation pathway in muscle mitochondria. This enzyme is required for the net transport of long-chain fatty acyl-CoAs from the cytoplasm into the mitochondria. Multiple transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been found for this gene, and read-through transcripts are expressed from the upstream locus that include exons from this gene.
CPT2	The protein encoded by this gene is a nuclear protein which is transported to the mitochondrial inner membrane. Together with carnitine palmitoyltransferase I, the encoded protein oxidizes long-chain fatty acids in the mitochondria. Defects in this gene are associated with mitochondrial long-chain fatty-acid (LCFA) oxidation disorders.
CR1	This gene is a member of the receptors of complement activation (RCA) family and is located in the 'cluster RCA' region of chromosome 1. The gene encodes a monomeric single-pass type I membrane glycoprotein found on erythrocytes, leukocytes, glomerular podocytes, and splenic follicular dendritic cells. The Knops blood group system is a system of antigens located on this protein. The protein mediates cellular binding to particles and immune complexes that have activated complement. Decreases in expression of this protein and/or mutations in its gene have been associated with gallbladder carcinomas, mesangiocapillary glomerulonephritis, systemic lupus erythematosus and sarcoidosis. Mutations in this gene have also been associated with a reduction in Plasmodium falciparum rosetting, conferring protection against severe malaria. Alternate allele-specific splice variants, encoding different isoforms, have been characterized. Additional allele specific isoforms, including a secreted form, have been described but have not been fully characterized.
CRABP1	This gene encodes a specific binding protein for a vitamin A family member and is thought to play an important role in retinoic acid-mediated differentiation and proliferation processes. It is structurally similar to the cellular retinol-binding proteins, but binds only retinoic acid at specific sites within the nucleus, which may contribute to vitamin A-directed differentiation in epithelial tissue.
CRABP2	This gene encodes a member of the retinoic acid (RA, a form of vitamin A) binding protein family and lipocalin/cytosolic fatty-acid binding protein family. The protein is a cytosol-to-nuclear shuttling protein, which facilitates RA binding to its cognate receptor complex and transfer to the nucleus. It is involved in the retinoid signaling pathway, and is associated with increased circulating low-density lipoprotein cholesterol. Alternatively spliced transcript variants encoding the same protein have been found for this gene.
CRAT	This gene encodes carnitine O-acetyltransferase, a member of the carnitine acyltransferase family and a key metabolic pathway enzyme which plays an important role in energy homeostasis and fat metabolism. This enzyme catalyzes the reversible transfer of acyl groups from an acyl-CoA thioester to carnitine and regulates the ratio of acyl-CoA/CoA. It is found in both the mitochondria and the peroxisome. Alternative splicing results in transcript variants encoding different isoforms that may localize to different subcellular compartments.
CRBN	This gene encodes a protein related to the Lon protease protein family. In rodents and other mammals this gene product is found in the cytoplasm localized with a calcium channel membrane protein, and is thought to play a role in brain development. Mutations in this gene are associated with autosomal recessive nonsyndromic cognitive disability. Multiple transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been found for this gene.
CREB1	This gene encodes a transcription factor that is a member of the leucine zipper family of DNA binding proteins. This protein binds as a homodimer to the cAMP-responsive element, an octameric palindrome. The protein is phosphorylated by several protein kinases, and induces transcription of genes in response to hormonal stimulation of the cAMP pathway. Alternate splicing of this gene results in several transcript variants encoding different isoforms.
CREBBP	This gene is ubiquitously expressed and is involved in the transcriptional coactivation of many different transcription factors. First isolated as a nuclear protein that binds to cAMP-response element binding protein (CREB), this gene is now known to play critical roles in embryonic development, growth control, and homeostasis by coupling chromatin remodeling to transcription factor recognition. The protein encoded by this gene has intrinsic histone acetyltransferase activity and also acts as a scaffold to stabilize additional protein interactions with the transcription complex. This protein acetylates both histone and non-histone proteins. This protein shares regions of very high sequence similarity with protein p300 in its bromodomain, cysteine-histidine-rich regions, and histone acetyltransferase domain. Mutations in this gene cause Rubinstein-Taybi syndrome (RTS). Chromosomal translocations involving this gene have been associated with acute myeloid leukemia. Alternative splicing results in multiple transcript variants encoding different isoforms.
CRHBP	Corticotropin-releasing hormone is a potent stimulator of synthesis and secretion of preopiomelanocortin-derived peptides. Although CRH concentrations in the human peripheral circulation are normally low, they increase throughout pregnancy and fall rapidly after parturition. Maternal plasma CRH probably originates from the placenta. Human plasma contains a CRH-binding protein which inactivates CRH and which may prevent inappropriate pituitary-adrenal stimulation in pregnancy.
CRHR1	This gene encodes a G-protein coupled receptor that binds neuropeptides of the corticotropin releasing hormone family that are major regulators of the hypothalamic-pituitary-adrenal pathway. The encoded protein is essential for the activation of signal transduction pathways that regulate diverse physiological processes including stress, reproduction, immune response and obesity. Alternative splicing results in multiple transcript variants. Naturally-occurring readthrough transcription between this gene and upstream GeneID:147081 results in transcripts that encode isoforms that share similarity with the products of this gene.
CRHR2	The protein encoded by this gene belongs to the G-protein coupled receptor 2 family, and the subfamily of corticotropin releasing hormone receptor. This receptor shows high affinity for corticotropin releasing hormone (CRH), and also binds CRH-related peptides such as urocortin. CRH is synthesized in the hypothalamus, and plays an important role in coordinating the endocrine, autonomic, and behavioral responses to stress and immune challenge. Studies in mice suggest that this receptor maybe involved in mediating cardiovascular homeostasis. Alternatively spliced transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been described for this gene.
CRK	This gene encodes a member of an adapter protein family that binds to several tyrosine-phosphorylated proteins. The product of this gene has several SH2 and SH3 domains (src-homology domains) and is involved in several signaling pathways, recruiting cytoplasmic proteins in the vicinity of tyrosine kinase through SH2-phosphotyrosine interaction. The N-terminal SH2 domain of this protein functions as a positive regulator of transformation whereas the C-terminal SH3 domain functions as a negative regulator of transformation. Two alternative transcripts encoding different isoforms with distinct biological activity have been described.
CROT	This gene encodes a member of the carnitine/choline acetyltransferase family. The encoded protein converts 4,8-dimethylnonanoyl-CoA to its corresponding carnitine ester. This transesterification occurs in the peroxisome and is necessary for transport of medium- and long- chain acyl-CoA molecules out of the peroxisome to the cytosol and mitochondria. The protein thus plays a role in lipid metabolism and fatty acid beta-oxidation. Alternatively spliced transcript variants have been described.
CRYAB	Mammalian lens crystallins are divided into alpha, beta, and gamma families. Alpha crystallins are composed of two gene products: alpha-A and alpha-B, for acidic and basic, respectively. Alpha crystallins can be induced by heat shock and are members of the small heat shock protein (HSP20) family. They act as molecular chaperones although they do not renature proteins and release them in the fashion of a true chaperone; instead they hold them in large soluble aggregates. These heterogeneous aggregates consist of 30-40 subunits; the alpha-A and alpha-B subunits have a 3:1 ratio, respectively. Two additional functions of alpha crystallins are an autokinase activity and participation in the intracellular architecture. The encoded protein has been identified as a moonlighting protein based on its ability to perform mechanistically distinct functions. Alpha-A and alpha-B gene products are differentially expressed; alpha-A is preferentially restricted to the lens and alpha-B is expressed widely in many tissues and organs. Elevated expression of alpha-B crystallin occurs in many neurological diseases; a missense mutation cosegregated in a family with a desmin-related myopathy. Alternative splicing results in multiple transcript variants.
CRYZ	Crystallins are separated into two classes: taxon-specific, or enzyme, and ubiquitous. The latter class constitutes the major proteins of vertebrate eye lens and maintains the transparency and refractive index of the lens. The former class is also called phylogenetically-restricted crystallins. This gene encodes a taxon-specific crystallin protein which has NADPH-dependent quinone reductase activity distinct from other known quinone reductases. It lacks alcohol dehydrogenase activity although by similarity it is considered a member of the zinc-containing alcohol dehydrogenase family. Unlike other mammalian species, in humans, lens expression is low. Alternatively spliced transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been found for this gene. One pseudogene is known to exist.
CSF1	The protein encoded by this gene is a cytokine that controls the production, differentiation, and function of macrophages. The active form of the protein is found extracellularly as a disulfide-linked homodimer, and is thought to be produced by proteolytic cleavage of membrane-bound precursors. The encoded protein may be involved in development of the placenta. Alternate splicing results in multiple transcript variants.
CSF1R	The protein encoded by this gene is the receptor for colony stimulating factor 1, a cytokine which controls the production, differentiation, and function of macrophages. This receptor mediates most if not all of the biological effects of this cytokine. Ligand binding activates the receptor kinase through a process of oligomerization and transphosphorylation. The encoded protein is a tyrosine kinase transmembrane receptor and member of the CSF1/PDGF receptor family of tyrosine-protein kinases. Mutations in this gene have been associated with a predisposition to myeloid malignancy. The first intron of this gene contains a transcriptionally inactive ribosomal protein L7 processed pseudogene oriented in the opposite direction. Alternative splicing results in multiple transcript variants. Expression of a splice variant from an LTR promoter has been found in Hodgkin lymphoma (HL), HL cell lines and anaplastic large cell lymphoma.
CSF2	The protein encoded by this gene is a cytokine that controls the production, differentiation, and function of granulocytes and macrophages. The active form of the protein is found extracellularly as a homodimer. This gene has been localized to a cluster of related genes at chromosome region 5q31, which is known to be associated with interstitial deletions in the 5q- syndrome and acute myelogenous leukemia. Other genes in the cluster include those encoding interleukins 4, 5, and 13.
CSF2RA	The protein encoded by this gene is the alpha subunit of the heterodimeric receptor for colony stimulating factor 2, a cytokine which controls the production, differentiation, and function of granulocytes and macrophages. The encoded protein is a member of the cytokine family of receptors. This gene is found in the pseudoautosomal region (PAR) of the X and Y chromosomes. Multiple transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been found for this gene, with some of the isoforms being membrane-bound and others being soluble.
CSF3R	The protein encoded by this gene is the receptor for colony stimulating factor 3, a cytokine that controls the production, differentiation, and function of granulocytes. The encoded protein, which is a member of the family of cytokine receptors, may also function in some cell surface adhesion or recognition processes. Alternatively spliced transcript variants have been described. Mutations in this gene are a cause of Kostmann syndrome, also known as severe congenital neutropenia.
CSGALNACT1	This gene encodes an enzyme that transfers N-acetylglucosamine (GalNAc) to the core tetrasaccharide linker and to elongating chondroitin sulfate chains in proteoglycans. Knockout of the orthologous mouse gene indicates that the protein is necessary for normal cartilage development and aggrecan metabolism. Mutations in this gene are associated with multiple sclerosis progression, and with mild skeletal dysplasia and joint laxity.
CSK	The protein encoded by this gene is involved in multiple pathways, including the regulation of Src family kinases. It plays an important role in T-cell activation through its association with the protein encoded by the protein tyrosine phosphatase, non-receptor type 22 (PTPN22) gene. This protein also phosphorylates C-terminal tyrosine residues on multiple substrates, including the protein encoded by the SRC proto-oncogene, non-receptor tyrosine kinase gene. Phosphorylation suppresses the kinase activity of the Src family tyrosine kinases. An intronic polymorphism (rs34933034) in this gene has been found to affect B-cell activation and is associated with systemic lupus erythematosus (SLE). Alternative splicing results in multiple transcript variants.
CSN3	Kappa-casein stabilizes micelle formation, preventing casein precipitation in milk.
CSNK1A1	Casein kinases are operationally defined by their preferential utilization of acidic proteins such as caseins as substrates. It can phosphorylate a large number of proteins. Participates in Wnt signaling. Phosphorylates CTNNB1 at 'Ser-45'. May phosphorylate PER1 and PER2. May play a role in segregating chromosomes during mitosis .
CSNK1D	This gene is a member of the casein kinase I (CKI) gene family whose members have been implicated in the control of cytoplasmic and nuclear processes, including DNA replication and repair. The encoded protein may also be involved in the regulation of apoptosis, circadian rhythm, microtubule dynamics, chromosome segregation, and p53-mediated effects on growth. The encoded protein is highly similar to the mouse and rat CK1 delta homologs. Three transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been found for this gene.
CSNK1E	The protein encoded by this gene is a serine/threonine protein kinase and a member of the casein kinase I protein family, whose members have been implicated in the control of cytoplasmic and nuclear processes, including DNA replication and repair. The encoded protein is found in the cytoplasm as a monomer and can phosphorylate a variety of proteins, including itself. This protein has been shown to phosphorylate period, a circadian rhythm protein. Two transcript variants encoding the same protein have been found for this gene.
CSNK1G1	This gene encodes a member of the casein kinase I gene family. This family is comprised of serine/threonine kinases that phosphorylate acidic proteins such as caseins. The encoded kinase plays a role in cell cycle checkpoint arrest in response to stalled replication forks by phosphorylating Claspin. A mutation in this gene may be associated with non-syndromic early-onset epilepsy (NSEOE).
CSNK1G2	Serine/threonine-protein kinase. Casein kinases are operationally defined by their preferential utilization of acidic proteins such as caseins as substrates. It can phosphorylate a large number of proteins. Participates in Wnt signaling. Phosphorylates COL4A3BP/CERT, MTA1 and SMAD3. Involved in brain development and vesicular trafficking and neurotransmitter releasing from small synaptic vesicles. Regulates fast synaptic transmission mediated by glutamate. SMAD3 phosphorylation promotes its ligand-dependent ubiquitination and subsequent proteasome degradation, thus inhibiting SMAD3-mediated TGF-beta responses. Hyperphosphorylation of the serine-repeat motif of COL4A3BP/CERT leads to its inactivation by dissociation from the Golgi complex, thus down-regulating ER-to-Golgi transport of ceramide and sphingomyelin synthesis. Triggers PER1 proteasomal degradation probably through phosphorylation.
CSNK1G3	This gene encodes a member of a family of serine/threonine protein kinases that phosphorylate caseins and other acidic proteins. A related protein in the African clawed frog participates in the transmission of Wnt/beta-catenin signaling. Alternatively spliced transcript variants encoding multiple isoforms have been observed for this gene.
CSNK2A1	Casein kinase II is a serine/threonine protein kinase that phosphorylates acidic proteins such as casein. It is involved in various cellular processes, including cell cycle control, apoptosis, and circadian rhythm. The kinase exists as a tetramer and is composed of an alpha, an alpha-prime, and two beta subunits. The alpha subunits contain the catalytic activity while the beta subunits undergo autophosphorylation. The protein encoded by this gene represents the alpha subunit. Multiple transcript variants encoding different protein isoforms have been found for this gene.
CSNK2A2	This gene encodes the alpha', or alpha 2, catalytic subunit of the protein kinase enzyme, casein kinase 2 (CK2). Casein kinase 2 is a serine/threonine protein kinase that phosphorylates acidic proteins such as casein. It is involved in various cellular processes, including cell cycle control, apoptosis, and circadian rhythms. This heterotetrameric kinase includes two catalytic subunits, either alpha or alpha', and two regulatory beta subunits. The closely related gene paralog encoding the alpha, or alpha 1 subunit (CSNK2A1, Gene ID: 1457) is found on chromosome 20. An intronic variant in this gene (alpha 2) may be associated with leukocyte telomere length in a South Asian population. A related transcribed pseudogene is found on chromosome 11.
CSNK2B	This gene encodes the beta subunit of casein kinase II, a ubiquitous protein kinase which regulates metabolic pathways, signal transduction, transcription, translation, and replication. The enzyme is composed of three subunits, alpha, alpha prime and beta, which form a tetrameric holoenzyme. The alpha and alpha prime subunits are catalytic, while the beta subunit serves regulatory functions. The enzyme localizes to the endoplasmic reticulum and the Golgi apparatus. Two transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been found for this gene.
CTBP2	This gene produces alternative transcripts encoding two distinct proteins. One protein is a transcriptional repressor, while the other isoform is a major component of specialized synapses known as synaptic ribbons. Both proteins contain a NAD+ binding domain similar to NAD+-dependent 2-hydroxyacid dehydrogenases. A portion of the 3' untranslated region was used to map this gene to chromosome 21q21.3; however, it was noted that similar loci elsewhere in the genome are likely. Blast analysis shows that this gene is present on chromosome 10. Several transcript variants encoding two different isoforms have been found for this gene.
CTDSP1	This gene encodes a member of the small C-terminal domain phosphatase (SCP) family of nuclear phosphatases. These proteins play a role in transcriptional regulation through specific dephosphorylation of phosphoserine 5 within tandem heptapeptide repeats of the C-terminal domain of RNA polymerase II. The encoded protein plays a role in neuronal gene silencing in non-neuronal cells, and may also inhibit osteoblast differentiation. Alternatively spliced transcript variants encoding multiple isoforms have been observed for this gene.
CTGF	The protein encoded by this gene is a mitogen that is secreted by vascular endothelial cells. The encoded protein plays a role in chondrocyte proliferation and differentiation, cell adhesion in many cell types, and is related to platelet-derived growth factor. Certain polymorphisms in this gene have been linked with a higher incidence of systemic sclerosis.
CTLA4	This gene is a member of the immunoglobulin superfamily and encodes a protein which transmits an inhibitory signal to T cells. The protein contains a V domain, a transmembrane domain, and a cytoplasmic tail. Alternate transcriptional splice variants, encoding different isoforms, have been characterized. The membrane-bound isoform functions as a homodimer interconnected by a disulfide bond, while the soluble isoform functions as a monomer. Mutations in this gene have been associated with insulin-dependent diabetes mellitus, Graves disease, Hashimoto thyroiditis, celiac disease, systemic lupus erythematosus, thyroid-associated orbitopathy, and other autoimmune diseases.
CTNNB1	The protein encoded by this gene is part of a complex of proteins that constitute adherens junctions (AJs). AJs are necessary for the creation and maintenance of epithelial cell layers by regulating cell growth and adhesion between cells. The encoded protein also anchors the actin cytoskeleton and may be responsible for transmitting the contact inhibition signal that causes cells to stop dividing once the epithelial sheet is complete. Finally, this protein binds to the product of the APC gene, which is mutated in adenomatous polyposis of the colon. Mutations in this gene are a cause of colorectal cancer (CRC), pilomatrixoma (PTR), medulloblastoma (MDB), and ovarian cancer. Alternative splicing results in multiple transcript variants.
CTRB1	This gene encodes a member of the serine protease family of enzymes and forms a principal precursor of the pancreatic proteolytic enzymes. The encoded preproprotein is synthesized in the acinar cells of the pancreas and secreted into the small intestine where it undergoes proteolytic activation to generate a functional enzyme. This gene is located adjacent to a related chymotrypsinogen gene. This gene encodes distinct isoforms, some or all of which may undergo similar processing to generate the mature protein.
CTRC	This gene encodes a member of the peptidase S1 family. The encoded protein is a serum calcium-decreasing factor that has chymotrypsin-like protease activity. Alternatively spliced transcript variants have been observed, but their full-length nature has not been determined.
CTRL	This gene encodes a serine-type endopeptidase with chymotrypsin- and elastase-2-like activities. The gene encoding this zymogen is expressed specifically in the pancreas and likely functions as a digestive enzyme.
CTSA	This gene encodes a member of the peptidase S10 family of serine carboxypeptidases. Alternative splicing results in multiple transcript variants, at least one of which encodes a preproprotein that is proteolytically processed to generate two chains that comprise the heterodimeric active enzyme. This enzyme possesses deamidase, esterase and carboxypeptidase activities and acts as a scaffold in the lysosomal multienzyme complex. Mutations in this gene are associated with galactosialidosis.
CTSB	This gene encodes a member of the C1 family of peptidases. Alternative splicing of this gene results in multiple transcript variants. At least one of these variants encodes a preproprotein that is proteolytically processed to generate multiple protein products. These products include the cathepsin B light and heavy chains, which can dimerize to form the double chain form of the enzyme. This enzyme is a lysosomal cysteine protease with both endopeptidase and exopeptidase activity that may play a role in protein turnover. It is also known as amyloid precursor protein secretase and is involved in the proteolytic processing of amyloid precursor protein (APP). Incomplete proteolytic processing of APP has been suggested to be a causative factor in Alzheimer's disease, the most common cause of dementia. Overexpression of the encoded protein has been associated with esophageal adenocarcinoma and other tumors. Multiple pseudogenes of this gene have been identified.
CTSC	This gene encodes a member of the peptidase C1 family and lysosomal cysteine proteinase that appears to be a central coordinator for activation of many serine proteinases in cells of the immune system. Alternative splicing results in multiple transcript variants, at least one of which encodes a preproprotein that is proteolytically processed to generate heavy and light chains that form a disulfide-linked dimer. A portion of the propeptide acts as an intramolecular chaperone for the folding and stabilization of the mature enzyme. This enzyme requires chloride ions for activity and can degrade glucagon. Defects in the encoded protein have been shown to be a cause of Papillon-Lefevre syndrome, an autosomal recessive disorder characterized by palmoplantar keratosis and periodontitis.
CTSD	This gene encodes a member of the A1 family of peptidases. The encoded preproprotein is proteolytically processed to generate multiple protein products. These products include the cathepsin D light and heavy chains, which heterodimerize to form the mature enzyme. This enzyme exhibits pepsin-like activity and plays a role in protein turnover and in the proteolytic activation of hormones and growth factors. Mutations in this gene play a causal role in neuronal ceroid lipofuscinosis-10 and may be involved in the pathogenesis of several other diseases, including breast cancer and possibly Alzheimer's disease.
CTSE	This gene encodes a member of the A1 family of peptidases. Alternative splicing of this gene results in multiple transcript variants. At least one of these variants encodes a preproprotein that is proteolytically processed to generate the mature enzyme. This enzyme, an aspartic endopeptidase, may be involved in antigen processing and the maturation of secretory proteins. Elevated expression of this gene has been observed in neurodegeneration.
CTSF	Cathepsins are papain family cysteine proteinases that represent a major component of the lysosomal proteolytic system. Cathepsins generally contain a signal sequence, followed by a propeptide and then a catalytically active mature region. The very long (251 amino acid residues) proregion of the cathepsin F precursor contains a C-terminal domain similar to the pro-segment of cathepsin L-like enzymes, a 50-residue flexible linker peptide, and an N-terminal domain predicted to adopt a cystatin-like fold. The cathepsin F proregion is unique within the papain family cysteine proteases in that it contains this additional N-terminal segment predicted to share structural similarities with cysteine protease inhibitors of the cystatin superfamily. This cystatin-like domain contains some of the elements known to be important for inhibitory activity. CTSF encodes a predicted protein of 484 amino acids which contains a 19 residue signal peptide. Cathepsin F contains five potential N-glycosylation sites, and it may be targeted to the endosomal/lysosomal compartment via the mannose 6-phosphate receptor pathway. The cathepsin F gene is ubiquitously expressed, and it maps to chromosome 11q13, close to the gene encoding cathepsin W.
CTSG	The protein encoded by this gene, a member of the peptidase S1 protein family, is found in azurophil granules of neutrophilic polymorphonuclear leukocytes. The encoded protease has a specificity similar to that of chymotrypsin C, and may participate in the killing and digestion of engulfed pathogens, and in connective tissue remodeling at sites of inflammation. In addition, the encoded protein is antimicrobial, with bacteriocidal activity against S. aureus and N. gonorrhoeae. Transcript variants utilizing alternative polyadenylation signals exist for this gene.
CTSH	The protein encoded by this gene is a lysosomal cysteine proteinase important in the overall degradation of lysosomal proteins. It is composed of a dimer of disulfide-linked heavy and light chains, both produced from a single protein precursor. The encoded protein, which belongs to the peptidase C1 protein family, can act both as an aminopeptidase and as an endopeptidase. Increased expression of this gene has been correlated with malignant progression of prostate tumors. Alternate splicing of this gene results in multiple transcript variants encoding different isoforms.
CTSK	The protein encoded by this gene is a lysosomal cysteine proteinase involved in bone remodeling and resorption. This protein, which is a member of the peptidase C1 protein family, is predominantly expressed in osteoclasts. However, the encoded protein is also expressed in a significant fraction of human breast cancers, where it could contribute to tumor invasiveness. Mutations in this gene are the cause of pycnodysostosis, an autosomal recessive disease characterized by osteosclerosis and short stature.
CTSL	The protein encoded by this gene is a lysosomal cysteine proteinase that plays a major role in intracellular protein catabolism. Its substrates include collagen and elastin, as well as alpha-1 protease inhibitor, a major controlling element of neutrophil elastase activity. The encoded protein has been implicated in several pathologic processes, including myofibril necrosis in myopathies and in myocardial ischemia, and in the renal tubular response to proteinuria. This protein, which is a member of the peptidase C1 family, is a dimer composed of disulfide-linked heavy and light chains, both produced from a single protein precursor. Multiple alternatively spliced transcript variants have been found for this gene.
CTSS	The protein encoded by this gene, a member of the peptidase C1 family, is a lysosomal cysteine proteinase that may participate in the degradation of antigenic proteins to peptides for presentation on MHC class II molecules. The encoded protein can function as an elastase over a broad pH range in alveolar macrophages. Alternatively spliced transcript variants encoding distinct isoforms have been found for this gene.
CTSV	The protein encoded by this gene, a member of the peptidase C1 family, is a lysosomal cysteine proteinase that may play an important role in corneal physiology. This gene is expressed in colorectal and breast carcinomas but not in normal colon, mammary gland, or peritumoral tissues, suggesting a possible role for this gene in tumor processes. Alternatively spliced variants, encoding the same protein, have been identified.
CTSZ	The protein encoded by this gene is a lysosomal cysteine proteinase and member of the peptidase C1 family. It exhibits both carboxy-monopeptidase and carboxy-dipeptidase activities. The encoded protein has also been known as cathepsin X and cathepsin P. This gene is expressed ubiquitously in cancer cell lines and primary tumors and, like other members of this family, may be involved in tumorigenesis.
CX3CR1	Fractalkine is a transmembrane protein and chemokine involved in the adhesion and migration of leukocytes. The protein encoded by this gene is a receptor for fractalkine. The encoded protein also is a coreceptor for HIV-1, and some variations in this gene lead to increased susceptibility to HIV-1 infection and rapid progression to AIDS. Four transcript variants encoding two different isoforms have been found for this gene.
CXCL10	This antimicrobial gene encodes a chemokine of the CXC subfamily and ligand for the receptor CXCR3. Binding of this protein to CXCR3 results in pleiotropic effects, including stimulation of monocytes, natural killer and T-cell migration, and modulation of adhesion molecule expression.
CXCL12	This antimicrobial gene encodes a stromal cell-derived alpha chemokine member of the intercrine family. The encoded protein functions as the ligand for the G-protein coupled receptor, chemokine (C-X-C motif) receptor 4, and plays a role in many diverse cellular functions, including embryogenesis, immune surveillance, inflammation response, tissue homeostasis, and tumor growth and metastasis. Mutations in this gene are associated with resistance to human immunodeficiency virus type 1 infections. Multiple transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been found for this gene.
CXCL2	This antimicrobial gene is part of a chemokine superfamily that encodes secreted proteins involved in immunoregulatory and inflammatory processes. The superfamily is divided into four subfamilies based on the arrangement of the N-terminal cysteine residues of the mature peptide. This chemokine, a member of the CXC subfamily, is expressed at sites of inflammation and may suppress hematopoietic progenitor cell proliferation.
CXCR1	The protein encoded by this gene is a member of the G-protein-coupled receptor family. This protein is a receptor for interleukin 8 (IL8). It binds to IL8 with high affinity, and transduces the signal through a G-protein activated second messenger system. Knockout studies in mice suggested that this protein inhibits embryonic oligodendrocyte precursor migration in developing spinal cord. This gene, IL8RB, a gene encoding another high affinity IL8 receptor, as well as IL8RBP, a pseudogene of IL8RB, form a gene cluster in a region mapped to chromosome 2q33-q36.
CXCR2	The protein encoded by this gene is a member of the G-protein-coupled receptor family. This protein is a receptor for interleukin 8 (IL8). It binds to IL8 with high affinity, and transduces the signal through a G-protein activated second messenger system. This receptor also binds to chemokine (C-X-C motif) ligand 1 (CXCL1/MGSA), a protein with melanoma growth stimulating activity, and has been shown to be a major component required for serum-dependent melanoma cell growth. This receptor mediates neutrophil migration to sites of inflammation. The angiogenic effects of IL8 in intestinal microvascular endothelial cells are found to be mediated by this receptor. Knockout studies in mice suggested that this receptor controls the positioning of oligodendrocyte precursors in developing spinal cord by arresting their migration. This gene, IL8RA, a gene encoding another high affinity IL8 receptor, as well as IL8RBP, a pseudogene of IL8RB, form a gene cluster in a region mapped to chromosome 2q33-q36. Alternatively spliced variants, encoding the same protein, have been identified.
CXCR3	This gene encodes a G protein-coupled receptor with selectivity for three chemokines, termed CXCL9/Mig (monokine induced by interferon-g), CXCL10/IP10 (interferon-g-inducible 10 kDa protein) and CXCL11/I-TAC (interferon-inducible T cell a-chemoattractant). Binding of chemokines to this protein induces cellular responses that are involved in leukocyte traffic, most notably integrin activation, cytoskeletal changes and chemotactic migration. Alternatively spliced transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been found for this gene. One of the isoforms (CXCR3-B) shows high affinity binding to chemokine, CXCL4/PF4 (PMID:12782716).
CXCR4	This gene encodes a CXC chemokine receptor specific for stromal cell-derived factor-1. The protein has 7 transmembrane regions and is located on the cell surface. It acts with the CD4 protein to support HIV entry into cells and is also highly expressed in breast cancer cells. Mutations in this gene have been associated with WHIM (warts, hypogammaglobulinemia, infections, and myelokathexis) syndrome. Alternate transcriptional splice variants, encoding different isoforms, have been characterized.
CXCR5	This gene encodes a multi-pass membrane protein that belongs to the CXC chemokine receptor family. It is expressed in mature B-cells and Burkitt's lymphoma. This cytokine receptor binds to B-lymphocyte chemoattractant (BLC), and is involved in B-cell migration into B-cell follicles of spleen and Peyer patches. Alternatively spliced transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been described for this gene.
CXCR6	Receptor for the C-X-C chemokine CXCL16. Used as a coreceptor by SIVs and by strains of HIV-2 and m-tropic HIV-1.
CYB5A	The protein encoded by this gene is a membrane-bound cytochrome that reduces ferric hemoglobin (methemoglobin) to ferrous hemoglobin, which is required for stearyl-CoA-desaturase activity. Defects in this gene are a cause of type IV hereditary methemoglobinemia. Three transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been found for this gene.
CYB5R3	This gene encodes cytochrome b5 reductase, which includes a membrane-bound form in somatic cells (anchored in the endoplasmic reticulum, mitochondrial and other membranes) and a soluble form in erythrocytes. The membrane-bound form exists mainly on the cytoplasmic side of the endoplasmic reticulum and functions in desaturation and elongation of fatty acids, in cholesterol biosynthesis, and in drug metabolism. The erythrocyte form is located in a soluble fraction of circulating erythrocytes and is involved in methemoglobin reduction. The membrane-bound form has both membrane-binding and catalytic domains, while the soluble form has only the catalytic domain. Alternate splicing results in multiple transcript variants. Mutations in this gene cause methemoglobinemias.
CYBB	Cytochrome b (-245) is composed of cytochrome b alpha (CYBA) and beta (CYBB) chain. It has been proposed as a primary component of the microbicidal oxidase system of phagocytes. CYBB deficiency is one of five described biochemical defects associated with chronic granulomatous disease (CGD). In this disorder, there is decreased activity of phagocyte NADPH oxidase; neutrophils are able to phagocytize bacteria but cannot kill them in the phagocytic vacuoles. The cause of the killing defect is an inability to increase the cell's respiration and consequent failure to deliver activated oxygen into the phagocytic vacuole.
CYCS	This gene encodes a small heme protein that functions as a central component of the electron transport chain in mitochondria. The encoded protein associates with the inner membrane of the mitochondrion where it accepts electrons from cytochrome b and transfers them to the cytochrome oxidase complex. This protein is also involved in initiation of apoptosis. Mutations in this gene are associated with autosomal dominant nonsyndromic thrombocytopenia. Numerous processed pseudogenes of this gene are found throughout the human genome.
CYP11A1	This gene encodes a member of the cytochrome P450 superfamily of enzymes. The cytochrome P450 proteins are monooxygenases which catalyze many reactions involved in drug metabolism and synthesis of cholesterol, steroids and other lipids. This protein localizes to the mitochondrial inner membrane and catalyzes the conversion of cholesterol to pregnenolone, the first and rate-limiting step in the synthesis of the steroid hormones. Two transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been found for this gene. The cellular location of the smaller isoform is unclear since it lacks the mitochondrial-targeting transit peptide.
CYP11B1	This gene encodes a member of the cytochrome P450 superfamily of enzymes. The cytochrome P450 proteins are monooxygenases which catalyze many reactions involved in drug metabolism and synthesis of cholesterol, steroids and other lipids. This protein localizes to the mitochondrial inner membrane and is involved in the conversion of progesterone to cortisol in the adrenal cortex. Mutations in this gene cause congenital adrenal hyperplasia due to 11-beta-hydroxylase deficiency. Transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been noted for this gene.
CYP11B2	This gene encodes a member of the cytochrome P450 superfamily of enzymes. The cytochrome P450 proteins are monooxygenases which catalyze many reactions involved in drug metabolism and synthesis of cholesterol, steroids and other lipids. This protein localizes to the mitochondrial inner membrane. The enzyme has steroid 18-hydroxylase activity to synthesize aldosterone and 18-oxocortisol as well as steroid 11 beta-hydroxylase activity. Mutations in this gene cause corticosterone methyl oxidase deficiency.
CYP17A1	This gene encodes a member of the cytochrome P450 superfamily of enzymes. The cytochrome P450 proteins are monooxygenases which catalyze many reactions involved in drug metabolism and synthesis of cholesterol, steroids and other lipids. This protein localizes to the endoplasmic reticulum. It has both 17alpha-hydroxylase and 17,20-lyase activities and is a key enzyme in the steroidogenic pathway that produces progestins, mineralocorticoids, glucocorticoids, androgens, and estrogens. Mutations in this gene are associated with isolated steroid-17 alpha-hydroxylase deficiency, 17-alpha-hydroxylase/17,20-lyase deficiency, pseudohermaphroditism, and adrenal hyperplasia.
CYP19A1	This gene encodes a member of the cytochrome P450 superfamily of enzymes. The cytochrome P450 proteins are monooxygenases which catalyze many reactions involved in drug metabolism and synthesis of cholesterol, steroids and other lipids. This protein localizes to the endoplasmic reticulum and catalyzes the last steps of estrogen biosynthesis. Mutations in this gene can result in either increased or decreased aromatase activity; the associated phenotypes suggest that estrogen functions both as a sex steroid hormone and in growth or differentiation. Alternative promoter use and alternative splicing results in multiple transcript variants that have different tissue specificities.
CYP1A1	This gene, CYP1A1, encodes a member of the cytochrome P450 superfamily of enzymes. The cytochrome P450 proteins are monooxygenases which catalyze many reactions involved in drug metabolism and synthesis of cholesterol, steroids and other lipids. This protein localizes to the endoplasmic reticulum and its expression is induced by some polycyclic aromatic hydrocarbons (PAHs), some of which are found in cigarette smoke. The enzyme's endogenous substrate is unknown; however, it is able to metabolize some PAHs to carcinogenic intermediates. The gene has been associated with lung cancer risk. A related family member, CYP1A2, is located approximately 25 kb away from CYP1A1 on chromosome 15. Alternative splicing results in multiple transcript variants encoding distinct isoforms.
CYP1A2	This gene encodes a member of the cytochrome P450 superfamily of enzymes. The cytochrome P450 proteins are monooxygenases which catalyze many reactions involved in drug metabolism and synthesis of cholesterol, steroids and other lipids. The protein encoded by this gene localizes to the endoplasmic reticulum and its expression is induced by some polycyclic aromatic hydrocarbons (PAHs), some of which are found in cigarette smoke. The enzyme's endogenous substrate is unknown; however, it is able to metabolize some PAHs to carcinogenic intermediates. Other xenobiotic substrates for this enzyme include caffeine, aflatoxin B1, and acetaminophen. The transcript from this gene contains four Alu sequences flanked by direct repeats in the 3' untranslated region.
CYP1B1	This gene encodes a member of the cytochrome P450 superfamily of enzymes. The cytochrome P450 proteins are monooxygenases which catalyze many reactions involved in drug metabolism and synthesis of cholesterol, steroids and other lipids. The enzyme encoded by this gene localizes to the endoplasmic reticulum and metabolizes procarcinogens such as polycyclic aromatic hydrocarbons and 17beta-estradiol. Mutations in this gene have been associated with primary congenital glaucoma; therefore it is thought that the enzyme also metabolizes a signaling molecule involved in eye development, possibly a steroid.
CYP24A1	This gene encodes a member of the cytochrome P450 superfamily of enzymes. The cytochrome P450 proteins are monooxygenases which catalyze many reactions involved in drug metabolism and synthesis of cholesterol, steroids and other lipids. This mitochondrial protein initiates the degradation of 1,25-dihydroxyvitamin D3, the physiologically active form of vitamin D3, by hydroxylation of the side chain. In regulating the level of vitamin D3, this enzyme plays a role in calcium homeostasis and the vitamin D endocrine system. Alternatively spliced transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been found for this gene.
CYP26A1	This gene encodes a member of the cytochrome P450 superfamily of enzymes. The cytochrome P450 proteins are monooxygenases which catalyze many reactions involved in drug metabolism and synthesis of cholesterol, steroids and other lipids. This endoplasmic reticulum protein acts on retinoids, including all-trans-retinoic acid (RA), with both 4-hydroxylation and 18-hydroxylation activities. This enzyme regulates the cellular level of retinoic acid which is involved in regulation of gene expression in both embryonic and adult tissues. Two alternatively spliced transcript variants of this gene, which encode the distinct isoforms, have been reported.
CYP26B1	This gene encodes a member of the cytochrome P450 superfamily. The cytochrome P450 proteins are monooxygenases which catalyze many reactions involved in drug metabolism and synthesis of cholesterol, steroids and other lipids. The encoded protein is localized to the endoplasmic reticulum, and functions as a critical regulator of all-trans retinoic acid levels by the specific inactivation of all-trans retinoic acid to hydroxylated forms. Mutations in this gene are associated with radiohumeral fusions and other skeletal and craniofacial anomalies, and increased levels of the encoded protein are associated with atherosclerotic lesions. Alternative splicing results in multiple transcript variants.
CYP27A1	This gene encodes a member of the cytochrome P450 superfamily of enzymes. The cytochrome P450 proteins are monooxygenases which catalyze many reactions involved in drug metabolism and synthesis of cholesterol, steroids and other lipids. This mitochondrial protein oxidizes cholesterol intermediates as part of the bile synthesis pathway. Since the conversion of cholesterol to bile acids is the major route for removing cholesterol from the body, this protein is important for overall cholesterol homeostasis. Mutations in this gene cause cerebrotendinous xanthomatosis, a rare autosomal recessive lipid storage disease.
CYP27B1	This gene encodes a member of the cytochrome P450 superfamily of enzymes. The cytochrome P450 proteins are monooxygenases which catalyze many reactions involved in drug metabolism and synthesis of cholesterol, steroids and other lipids. The protein encoded by this gene localizes to the inner mitochondrial membrane where it hydroxylates 25-hydroxyvitamin D3 at the 1alpha position. This reaction synthesizes 1alpha,25-dihydroxyvitamin D3, the active form of vitamin D3, which binds to the vitamin D receptor and regulates calcium metabolism. Thus this enzyme regulates the level of biologically active vitamin D and plays an important role in calcium homeostasis. Mutations in this gene can result in vitamin D-dependent rickets type I.
CYP2A13	This gene encodes a member of the cytochrome P450 superfamily of enzymes. The cytochrome P450 proteins are monooxygenases which catalyze many reactions involved in drug metabolism and synthesis of cholesterol, steroids and other lipids. This protein localizes to the endoplasmic reticulum. Although its endogenous substrate has not been determined, it is known to metabolize 4-(methylnitrosamino)-1-(3-pyridyl)-1-butanone, a major nitrosamine specific to tobacco. This gene is part of a large cluster of cytochrome P450 genes from the CYP2A, CYP2B and CYP2F subfamilies on chromosome 19q.
CYP2A6	This gene, CYP2A6, encodes a member of the cytochrome P450 superfamily of enzymes. The cytochrome P450 proteins are monooxygenases which catalyze many reactions involved in drug metabolism and synthesis of cholesterol, steroids and other lipids. This protein localizes to the endoplasmic reticulum and its expression is induced by phenobarbital. The enzyme is known to hydroxylate coumarin, and also metabolizes nicotine, aflatoxin B1, nitrosamines, and some pharmaceuticals. Individuals with certain allelic variants are said to have a poor metabolizer phenotype, meaning they do not efficiently metabolize coumarin or nicotine. This gene is part of a large cluster of cytochrome P450 genes from the CYP2A, CYP2B and CYP2F subfamilies on chromosome 19q. The gene was formerly referred to as CYP2A3; however, it has been renamed CYP2A6.
CYP2B6	This gene, CYP2B6, encodes a member of the cytochrome P450 superfamily of enzymes. The cytochrome P450 proteins are monooxygenases which catalyze many reactions involved in drug metabolism and synthesis of cholesterol, steroids and other lipids. This protein localizes to the endoplasmic reticulum and its expression is induced by phenobarbital. The enzyme is known to metabolize some xenobiotics, such as the anti-cancer drugs cyclophosphamide and ifosphamide. Transcript variants for this gene have been described; however, it has not been resolved whether these transcripts are in fact produced by this gene or by a closely related pseudogene, CYP2B7. Both the gene and the pseudogene are located in the middle of a CYP2A pseudogene found in a large cluster of cytochrome P450 genes from the CYP2A, CYP2B and CYP2F subfamilies on chromosome 19q.
CYP2C18	This gene encodes a member of the cytochrome P450 superfamily of enzymes. The cytochrome P450 proteins are monooxygenases which catalyze many reactions involved in drug metabolism and synthesis of cholesterol, steroids and other lipids. This protein localizes to the endoplasmic reticulum but its specific substrate has not yet been determined. The gene is located within a cluster of cytochrome P450 genes on chromosome 10q24. An additional gene, CYP2C17, was once thought to exist; however, CYP2C17 is now considered an artefact based on a chimera of CYP2C18 and CYP2C19. Alternatively spliced transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been found for this gene.
CYP2C19	This gene encodes a member of the cytochrome P450 superfamily of enzymes. The cytochrome P450 proteins are monooxygenases which catalyze many reactions involved in drug metabolism and synthesis of cholesterol, steroids and other lipids. This protein localizes to the endoplasmic reticulum and is known to metabolize many xenobiotics, including the anticonvulsive drug mephenytoin, omeprazole, diazepam and some barbiturates. Polymorphism within this gene is associated with variable ability to metabolize mephenytoin, known as the poor metabolizer and extensive metabolizer phenotypes. The gene is located within a cluster of cytochrome P450 genes on chromosome 10q24.
CYP2C8	This gene encodes a member of the cytochrome P450 superfamily of enzymes. The cytochrome P450 proteins are monooxygenases which catalyze many reactions involved in drug metabolism and synthesis of cholesterol, steroids and other lipids. This protein localizes to the endoplasmic reticulum and its expression is induced by phenobarbital. The enzyme is known to metabolize many xenobiotics, including the anticonvulsive drug mephenytoin, benzo(a)pyrene, 7-ethyoxycoumarin, and the anti-cancer drug taxol. This gene is located within a cluster of cytochrome P450 genes on chromosome 10q24. Several transcript variants encoding a few different isoforms have been found for this gene.
CYP2C9	This gene encodes a member of the cytochrome P450 superfamily of enzymes. The cytochrome P450 proteins are monooxygenases which catalyze many reactions involved in drug metabolism and synthesis of cholesterol, steroids and other lipids. This protein localizes to the endoplasmic reticulum and its expression is induced by rifampin. The enzyme is known to metabolize many xenobiotics, including phenytoin, tolbutamide, ibuprofen and S-warfarin. Studies identifying individuals who are poor metabolizers of phenytoin and tolbutamide suggest that this gene is polymorphic. The gene is located within a cluster of cytochrome P450 genes on chromosome 10q24.
CYP2D6	This gene encodes a member of the cytochrome P450 superfamily of enzymes. The cytochrome P450 proteins are monooxygenases which catalyze many reactions involved in drug metabolism and synthesis of cholesterol, steroids and other lipids. This protein localizes to the endoplasmic reticulum and is known to metabolize as many as 25% of commonly prescribed drugs. Its substrates include antidepressants, antipsychotics, analgesics and antitussives, beta adrenergic blocking agents, antiarrythmics and antiemetics. The gene is highly polymorphic in the human population; certain alleles result in the poor metabolizer phenotype, characterized by a decreased ability to metabolize the enzyme's substrates. Some individuals with the poor metabolizer phenotype have no functional protein since they carry 2 null alleles whereas in other individuals the gene is absent. This gene can vary in copy number and individuals with the ultrarapid metabolizer phenotype can have 3 or more active copies of the gene. Alternatively spliced transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been found for this gene.
CYP2E1	This gene encodes a member of the cytochrome P450 superfamily of enzymes. The cytochrome P450 proteins are monooxygenases which catalyze many reactions involved in drug metabolism and synthesis of cholesterol, steroids and other lipids. This protein localizes to the endoplasmic reticulum and is induced by ethanol, the diabetic state, and starvation. The enzyme metabolizes both endogenous substrates, such as ethanol, acetone, and acetal, as well as exogenous substrates including benzene, carbon tetrachloride, ethylene glycol, and nitrosamines which are premutagens found in cigarette smoke. Due to its many substrates, this enzyme may be involved in such varied processes as gluconeogenesis, hepatic cirrhosis, diabetes, and cancer.
CYP2J2	This gene encodes a member of the cytochrome P450 superfamily of enzymes. The cytochrome P450 proteins are monooxygenases which catalyze many reactions involved in drug metabolism and synthesis of cholesterol, steroids and other lipids. This protein localizes to the endoplasmic reticulum and is thought to be the predominant enzyme responsible for epoxidation of endogenous arachidonic acid in cardiac tissue. Multiple transcript variants have been found for this gene.
CYP2W1	This gene encodes a member of the cytochrome P450 superfamily of enzymes. The cytochrome P450 proteins are monooxygenases which catalyze many reactions involved in drug metabolism and synthesis of cholesterol, steroids and other lipids.
CYP3A4	This gene encodes a member of the cytochrome P450 superfamily of enzymes. The cytochrome P450 proteins are monooxygenases that catalyze many reactions involved in drug metabolism and synthesis of cholesterol, steroids and other lipids. This protein localizes to the endoplasmic reticulum and its expression is induced by glucocorticoids and some pharmacological agents. This enzyme is involved in the metabolism of approximately half the drugs in use today, including acetaminophen, codeine, cyclosporin A, diazepam and erythromycin. The enzyme also metabolizes some steroids and carcinogens. This gene is part of a cluster of cytochrome P450 genes on chromosome 7q21.1. Previously another CYP3A gene, CYP3A3, was thought to exist; however, it is now thought that this sequence represents a transcript variant of CYP3A4. Alternatively spliced transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been identified.
CYP3A5	This gene encodes a member of the cytochrome P450 superfamily of enzymes. The cytochrome P450 proteins are monooxygenases which catalyze many reactions involved in drug metabolism and synthesis of cholesterol, steroids and other lipids. The encoded protein metabolizes drugs as well as the steroid hormones testosterone and progesterone. This gene is part of a cluster of cytochrome P450 genes on chromosome 7q21.1. Two pseudogenes of this gene have been identified within this cluster on chromosome 7. Expression of this gene is widely variable among populations, and a single nucleotide polymorphism that affects transcript splicing has been associated with susceptibility to hypertensions. Alternative splicing results in multiple transcript variants.
CYP3A7	This gene encodes a member of the cytochrome P450 superfamily of enzymes, which participate in drug metabolism and the synthesis of cholesterol, steroids and other lipids. This enzyme hydroxylates testosterone and dehydroepiandrosterone 3-sulphate, which is involved in the formation of estriol during pregnancy. This gene is part of a cluster of related genes on chromosome 7q21.1. Naturally-occurring readthrough transcription occurs between this gene and the downstream CYP3A51P pseudogene and is represented by GeneID:100861540.
CYP4A11	This gene encodes a member of the cytochrome P450 superfamily of enzymes. The cytochrome P450 proteins are monooxygenases which catalyze many reactions involved in drug metabolism and synthesis of cholesterol, steroids and other lipids. This protein localizes to the endoplasmic reticulum and hydroxylates medium-chain fatty acids such as laurate and myristate. Multiple transcript variants have been found for this gene.
CYP4F12	This gene encodes a member of the cytochrome P450 superfamily of enzymes. The cytochrome P450 proteins are monooxygenases which catalyze many reactions involved in drug metabolism and synthesis of cholesterol, steroids and other lipids. This protein likely localizes to the endoplasmic reticulum. When expressed in yeast the enzyme is capable of oxdizing arachidonic acid. It can also catalyze the epoxidation of 22:6n-3 and 22:5n-3 polyunsaturated long-chain fatty acids. This gene is part of a cluster of cytochrome P450 genes on chromosome 19. Alternative splicing results in multiple transcript variants.
CYP4F2	This gene encodes a member of the cytochrome P450 superfamily of enzymes. The cytochrome P450 proteins are monooxygenases which catalyze many reactions involved in drug metabolism and synthesis of cholesterol, steroids and other lipids. This protein localizes to the endoplasmic reticulum. The enzyme starts the process of inactivating and degrading leukotriene B4, a potent mediator of inflammation. This gene is part of a cluster of cytochrome P450 genes on chromosome 19. Another member of this family, CYP4F11, is approximately 16 kb away.
CYP4F3	This gene, CYP4F3, encodes a member of the cytochrome P450 superfamily of enzymes. The cytochrome P450 proteins are monooxygenases which catalyze many reactions involved in drug metabolism and synthesis of cholesterol, steroids and other lipids. This protein localizes to the endoplasmic reticulum. The enzyme starts the process of inactivating and degrading leukotriene B4, a potent mediator of inflammation. This gene is part of a cluster of cytochrome P450 genes on chromosome 19. Another member of this family, CYP4F8, is approximately 18 kb away. Several transcript variants encoding two different isoforms have been found for this gene.
CYP4X1	This gene encodes a member of the cytochrome P450 superfamily of enzymes and is located within a cluster of genes belonging to this superfamily on chromosome 1. The cytochrome P450 proteins are monooxygenases which catalyze many reactions involved in drug metabolism and synthesis of cholesterol, steroids and other lipids. The expression pattern of a similar rat protein suggests that this protein may be involved in neurovascular function in the brain. Alternative splicing results in multiple transcript variants.
CYP51A1	This gene encodes a member of the cytochrome P450 superfamily of enzymes. The cytochrome P450 proteins are monooxygenases which catalyze many reactions involved in drug metabolism and synthesis of cholesterol, steroids and other lipids. This endoplasmic reticulum protein participates in the synthesis of cholesterol by catalyzing the removal of the 14alpha-methyl group from lanosterol. Homologous genes are found in all three eukaryotic phyla, fungi, plants, and animals, suggesting that this is one of the oldest cytochrome P450 genes. Two transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been found for this gene.
CYSLTR1	This gene encodes a member of the G-protein coupled receptor 1 family. The encoded protein is a receptor for cysteinyl leukotrienes, and is involved in mediating bronchoconstriction via activation of a phosphatidylinositol-calcium second messenger system. Activation of the encoded receptor results in contraction and proliferation of bronchial smooth muscle cells, eosinophil migration, and damage to the mucus layer in the lung. Upregulation of this gene is associated with asthma and dysregulation may also be implicated in cancer. Alternative splicing results in multiple transcript variants.
CYSLTR2	The cysteinyl leukotrienes LTC4, LTD4, and LTE4 are important mediators of human bronchial asthma. Pharmacologic studies have determined that cysteinyl leukotrienes activate at least 2 receptors, the protein encoded by this gene and CYSLTR1. This encoded receptor is a member of the superfamily of G protein-coupled receptors. It seems to play a major role in endocrine and cardiovascular systems.
CYTH2	The protein encoded by this gene is a member of the PSCD family. Members of this family have identical structural organization that consists of an N-terminal coiled-coil motif, a central Sec7 domain, and a C-terminal pleckstrin homology (PH) domain. The coiled-coil motif is involved in homodimerization, the Sec7 domain contains guanine-nucleotide exchange protein (GEP) activity, and the PH domain interacts with phospholipids and is responsible for association of PSCDs with membranes. Members of this family appear to mediate the regulation of protein sorting and membrane trafficking. The encoded protein exhibits GEP activity in vitro with ARF1, ARF3, and ARF6 and is 83% homologous to CYTH1. Two transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been found for this gene.
CYTH3	This gene encodes a member of the PSCD (pleckstrin homology, Sec7 and coiled-coil domains) family. PSCD family members have identical structural organization that consists of an N-terminal coiled-coil motif, a central Sec7 domain, and a C-terminal pleckstrin homology (PH) domain. The coiled-coil motif is involved in homodimerization, the Sec7 domain contains guanine-nucleotide exchange protein (GEP) activity, and the PH domain interacts with phospholipids and is responsible for association of PSCDs with membranes. Members of this family appear to mediate the regulation of protein sorting and membrane trafficking. This encoded protein is involved in the control of Golgi structure and function, and it may have a physiological role in regulating ADP-ribosylation factor protein 6 (ARF) functions, in addition to acting on ARF1.
DAG1	This gene encodes dystroglycan, a central component of dystrophin-glycoprotein complex that links the extracellular matrix and the cytoskeleton in the skeletal muscle. The encoded preproprotein undergoes O- and N-glycosylation, and proteolytic processing to generate alpha and beta subunits. Certain mutations in this gene are known to cause distinct forms of muscular dystrophy. Alternative splicing results in multiple transcript variants, all encoding the same protein.
DAGLA	This gene encodes a diacylglycerol lipase. The encoded enzyme is involved in the biosynthesis of the endocannabinoid 2-arachidonoyl-glycerol.
DAGLB	Catalyzes the hydrolysis of diacylglycerol (DAG) to 2-arachidonoyl-glycerol (2-AG), the most abundant endocannabinoid in tissues. Required for axonal growth during development and for retrograde synaptic signaling at mature synapses.
DAO	This gene encodes the peroxisomal enzyme D-amino acid oxidase. The enzyme is a flavoprotein which uses flavin adenine dinucleotide (FAD) as its prosthetic group. Its substrates include a wide variety of D-amino acids, but it is inactive on the naturally occurring L-amino acids. Its biological function is not known; it may act as a detoxifying agent which removes D-amino acids that accumulate during aging. In mice, it degrades D-serine, a co-agonist of the NMDA receptor. This gene may play a role in the pathophysiology of schizophrenia.
DAPK1	Death-associated protein kinase 1 is a positive mediator of gamma-interferon induced programmed cell death. DAPK1 encodes a structurally unique 160-kD calmodulin dependent serine-threonine kinase that carries 8 ankyrin repeats and 2 putative P-loop consensus sites. It is a tumor suppressor candidate. Alternative splicing results in multiple transcript variants.
DAPK2	This gene encodes a protein that belongs to the serine/threonine protein kinase family. This protein contains a N-terminal protein kinase domain followed by a conserved calmodulin-binding domain with significant similarity to that of death-associated protein kinase 1 (DAPK1), a positive regulator of programmed cell death. Overexpression of this gene was shown to induce cell apoptosis.  It uses multiple polyadenylation sites.
DAPK3	Death-associated protein kinase 3 (DAPK3) induces morphological changes in apoptosis when overexpressed in mammalian cells.  These results suggest that DAPK3 may play a role in the induction of apoptosis.
DBF4	Regulatory subunit for CDC7 which activates its kinase activity thereby playing a central role in DNA replication and cell proliferation. Required for progression of S phase. The complex CDC7-DBF4A selectively phosphorylates MCM2 subunit at 'Ser-40' and 'Ser-53' and then is involved in regulating the initiation of DNA replication during cell cycle.
DBH	The protein encoded by this gene is an oxidoreductase belonging to the copper type II, ascorbate-dependent monooxygenase family. The encoded protein, expressed in neuroscretory vesicles and chromaffin granules of the adrenal medulla, catalyzes the conversion of dopamine to norepinephrine, which functions as both a hormone and as the main neurotransmitter of the sympathetic nervous system. The enzyme encoded by this gene exists exists in both soluble and membrane-bound forms, depending on the absence or presence, respectively, of a signal peptide. Mutations in this gene cause dopamine beta-hydroxylate deficiency in human patients, characterized by deficits in autonomic and cardiovascular function, including hypotension and ptosis. Polymorphisms in this gene may play a role in a variety of psychiatric disorders.
DCK	 Deoxycytidine kinase (DCK) is required for the phosphorylation of several deoxyribonucleosides and their nucleoside analogs.  Deficiency of DCK is associated with resistance to antiviral and anticancer chemotherapeutic agents.  Conversely, increased deoxycytidine kinase activity is associated with increased activation of these compounds to cytotoxic nucleoside triphosphate derivatives.  DCK is clinically important because of its relationship to drug resistance and sensitivity.
DCLK2	This gene encodes a member of the protein kinase superfamily and the doublecortin family. The protein encoded by this gene contains two N-terminal doublecortin domains, which bind microtubules and regulate microtubule polymerization, a C-terminal serine/threonine protein kinase domain, which shows substantial homology to Ca2+/calmodulin-dependent protein kinase, and a serine/proline-rich domain in between the doublecortin and the protein kinase domains, which mediates multiple protein-protein interactions. The microtubule-polymerizing activity of the encoded protein is independent of its protein kinase activity. Mouse studies show that the DCX gene, another family member, and this gene share function in the establishment of hippocampal organization and that their absence results in a severe epileptic phenotype and lethality, as described in human patients with lissencephaly. Multiple alternatively spliced transcript variants have been identified.
DCLK3	This gene is a Protein Coding gene. Predicted to enable protein kinase activity. Predicted to be involved in peptidyl-serine phosphorylation. Predicted to act upstream of or within negative regulation of protein localization to nucleus. Predicted to be active in cytoplasm and nucleus.
DCPS	This gene encodes a member of the histidine triad family of pyrophosphatases that removes short mRNA fragments containing the 5&#8242; mRNA cap structure, which appear in the 3&#8242; &#8594; 5&#8242; mRNA decay pathway, following deadenylation and exosome-mediated turnover. This enzyme hydrolyzes the triphosphate linkage of the cap structure (7-methylguanosine nucleoside triphosphate) to yield 7-methylguanosine monophosphate and nucleoside diphosphate. It protects the cell from the potentially toxic accumulation of these short, capped mRNA fragments, and regulates the activity of other cap-binding proteins, which are inhibited by their accumulation. It also acts as a transcript-specific modulator of pre-mRNA splicing and microRNA turnover.
DCTD	The protein encoded by this gene catalyzes the deamination of dCMP to dUMP, the nucleotide substrate for thymidylate synthase. The encoded protein is allosterically activated by dCTP and inhibited by dTTP, and is found as a homohexamer. This protein uses zinc as a cofactor for its activity. Two transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been found for this gene.
DCTPP1	The protein encoded by this gene is dCTP pyrophosphatase, which converts dCTP to dCMP and inorganic pyrophosphate. The encoded protein also displays weak activity against dTTP and dATP, but none against dGTP. This protein may be responsible for eliminating excess dCTP after DNA synthesis and may prevent overmethylation of CpG islands. Three transcript variants, one protein-coding and the other two non-protein coding, have been found for this gene.
DCXR	The protein encoded by this gene acts as a homotetramer to catalyze diacetyl reductase and L-xylulose reductase reactions. The encoded protein may play a role in the uronate cycle of glucose metabolism and in the cellular osmoregulation in the proximal renal tubules. Defects in this gene are a cause of pentosuria. Two transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been found for this gene.
DDAH1	This gene belongs to the dimethylarginine dimethylaminohydrolase (DDAH) gene family. The encoded enzyme plays a role in nitric oxide generation by regulating cellular concentrations of methylarginines, which in turn inhibit nitric oxide synthase activity.
DDC	The encoded protein catalyzes the decarboxylation of L-3,4-dihydroxyphenylalanine (DOPA) to dopamine, L-5-hydroxytryptophan to serotonin and L-tryptophan to tryptamine. Defects in this gene are the cause of aromatic L-amino-acid decarboxylase deficiency (AADCD). AADCD deficiency is an inborn error in neurotransmitter metabolism that leads to combined serotonin and catecholamine deficiency. Multiple alternatively spliced transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been identified for this gene.
DDIT3	This gene encodes a member of the CCAAT/enhancer-binding protein (C/EBP) family of transcription factors. The protein functions as a dominant-negative inhibitor by forming heterodimers with other C/EBP members, such as C/EBP and LAP (liver activator protein), and preventing their DNA binding activity. The protein is implicated in adipogenesis and erythropoiesis, is activated by endoplasmic reticulum stress, and promotes apoptosis. Fusion of this gene and FUS on chromosome 16 or EWSR1 on chromosome 22 induced by translocation generates chimeric proteins in myxoid liposarcomas or Ewing sarcoma. Multiple alternatively spliced transcript variants encoding two isoforms with different length have been identified.
DDO	The protein encoded by this gene is a peroxisomal flavoprotein that catalyzes the oxidative deamination of D-aspartate and N-methyl D-aspartate. Flavin adenine dinucleotide or 6-hydroxyflavin adenine dinucleotide can serve as the cofactor in this reaction. Several transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been found for this gene.
DDOST	This gene encodes a component of the oligosaccharyltransferase complex which catalyzes the transfer of high-mannose oligosaccharides to asparagine residues on nascent polypeptides in the lumen of the rough endoplasmic reticulum. The protein complex co-purifies with ribosomes. The product of this gene is also implicated in the processing of advanced glycation endproducts (AGEs), which form from non-enzymatic reactions between sugars and proteins or lipids and are associated with aging and hyperglycemia.
DDR1	Receptor tyrosine kinases play a key role in the communication of cells with their microenvironment. These kinases are involved in the regulation of cell growth, differentiation and metabolism. The protein encoded by this gene belongs to a subfamily of tyrosine kinase receptors with homology to Dictyostelium discoideum protein discoidin I in their extracellular domain, and that are activated by various types of collagen. Expression of this protein is restricted to epithelial cells, particularly in the kidney, lung, gastrointestinal tract, and brain. In addition, it has been shown to be significantly overexpressed in several human tumors. Alternatively spliced transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been described for this gene.
DDR2	This gene encodes a member of the discoidin domain receptor subclass of the receptor tyrosine kinase (RTKs) protein family. RTKs play a key role in the communication of cells with their microenvironment. The encoded protein is a collagen-induced receptor that activates signal transduction pathways involved in cell adhesion, proliferation, and extracellular matrix remodeling. This protein is expressed in numerous cell types and may alos be involved in wound repair and regulate tumor growth and invasiveness. Mutations in this gene are the cause of short limb-hand type spondylometaepiphyseal dysplasia.
DDX1	DEAD box proteins, characterized by the conserved motif Asp-Glu-Ala-Asp (DEAD), are putative RNA helicases. They are implicated in a number of cellular processes involving alteration of RNA secondary structure such as translation initiation, nuclear and mitochondrial splicing, and ribosome and spliceosome assembly. Based on their distribution patterns, some members of this family are believed to be involved in embryogenesis, spermatogenesis, and cellular growth and division. This gene encodes a DEAD box protein of unknown function. It shows high transcription levels in 2 retinoblastoma cell lines and in tissues of neuroectodermal origin.
DDX3X	The protein encoded by this gene is a member of the large DEAD-box protein family, that is defined by the presence of the conserved Asp-Glu-Ala-Asp (DEAD) motif, and has ATP-dependent RNA helicase activity. This protein has been reported to display a high level of RNA-independent ATPase activity, and unlike most DEAD-box helicases, the ATPase activity is thought to be stimulated by both RNA and DNA. This protein has multiple conserved domains and is thought to play roles in both the nucleus and cytoplasm. Nuclear roles include transcriptional regulation, mRNP assembly, pre-mRNA splicing, and mRNA export. In the cytoplasm, this protein is thought to be involved in translation, cellular signaling, and viral replication. Misregulation of this gene has been implicated in tumorigenesis. This gene has a paralog located in the nonrecombining region of the Y chromosome. Pseudogenes sharing similarity to both this gene and the DDX3Y paralog are found on chromosome 4 and the X chromosome. Alternative splicing results in multiple transcript variants.
DEGS1	This gene encodes a member of the membrane fatty acid desaturase family which is responsible for inserting double bonds into specific positions in fatty acids. This protein contains three His-containing consensus motifs that are characteristic of a group of membrane fatty acid desaturases. It is predicted to be a multiple membrane-spanning protein localized to the endoplasmic reticulum. Overexpression of this gene inhibited biosynthesis of the EGF receptor, suggesting a possible role of a fatty acid desaturase in regulating biosynthetic processing of the EGF receptor.
DGAT1	This gene encodes an multipass transmembrane protein that functions as a key metabolic enzyme. The encoded protein catalyzes the conversion of diacylglycerol and fatty acyl CoA to triacylglycerol. This enzyme can also transfer acyl CoA to retinol. Activity of this protein may be associated with obesity and other metabolic diseases.
DGAT2	This gene encodes one of two enzymes which catalyzes the final reaction in the synthesis of triglycerides in which diacylglycerol is covalently bound to long chain fatty acyl-CoAs. The encoded protein catalyzes this reaction at low concentrations of magnesium chloride while the other enzyme has high activity at high concentrations of magnesium chloride. Multiple transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been found for this gene.
DGKD	This gene encodes a cytoplasmic enzyme that phosphorylates diacylglycerol to produce phosphatidic acid. Diacylglycerol and phosphatidic acid are two lipids that act as second messengers in signaling cascades. Their cellular concentrations are regulated by the encoded protein, and so it is thought to play an important role in cellular signal transduction. Alternative splicing results in two transcript variants encoding different isoforms.
DGKE	Diacylglycerol kinases are thought to be involved mainly in the regeneration of phosphatidylinositol (PI) from diacylglycerol in the PI-cycle during cell signal transduction.  When expressed in mammalian cells, DGK-epsilon shows specificity for arachidonyl-containing diacylglycerol. DGK-epsilon is expressed predominantly in testis.
DGKG	This gene encodes an enzyme that is a member of the type I subfamily of diacylglycerol kinases, which are involved in lipid metabolism. These enzymes generate phosphatidic acid by catalyzing the phosphorylation of diacylglycerol, a fundamental lipid second messenger that activates numerous proteins, including protein kinase C isoforms, Ras guanyl nucleotide-releasing proteins and some transient receptor potential channels. Diacylglycerol kinase gamma has been implicated in cell cycle regulation and in the negative regulation of macrophage differentiation in leukemia cells. Multiple transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been found for this gene.
DGUOK	In mammalian cells, the phosphorylation of purine deoxyribonucleosides is mediated predominantly by two deoxyribonucleoside kinases, cytosolic deoxycytidine kinase and mitochondrial deoxyguanosine kinase. The protein encoded by this gene is responsible for phosphorylation of purine deoxyribonucleosides in the mitochondrial matrix. In addition, this protein phosphorylates several purine deoxyribonucleoside analogs used in the treatment of lymphoproliferative disorders, and this phosphorylation is critical for the effectiveness of the analogs. Alternative splice variants encoding different protein isoforms have been described for this gene.
DHCR24	This gene encodes a flavin adenine dinucleotide (FAD)-dependent oxidoreductase which catalyzes the reduction of the delta-24 double bond of sterol intermediates during cholesterol biosynthesis. The protein contains a leader sequence that directs it to the endoplasmic reticulum membrane. Missense mutations in this gene have been associated with desmosterolosis. Also, reduced expression of the gene occurs in the temporal cortex of Alzheimer disease patients and overexpression has been observed in adrenal gland cancer cells.
DHCR7	This gene encodes an enzyme that removes the C(7-8) double bond in the B ring of sterols and catalyzes the conversion of 7-dehydrocholesterol to cholesterol. This gene is ubiquitously expressed and its transmembrane protein localizes to the endoplasmic reticulum membrane and nuclear outer membrane. Mutations in this gene cause Smith-Lemli-Opitz syndrome (SLOS); a syndrome that is metabolically characterized by reduced serum cholesterol levels and elevated serum 7-dehydrocholesterol levels and phenotypically characterized by cognitive disability, facial dysmorphism, syndactyly of second and third toes, and holoprosencephaly in severe cases to minimal physical abnormalities and near-normal intelligence in mild cases. Alternative splicing results in multiple transcript variants that encode the same protein.
DHFR	Dihydrofolate reductase converts dihydrofolate into tetrahydrofolate, a methyl group shuttle required for the de novo synthesis of purines, thymidylic acid, and certain amino acids. While the functional dihydrofolate reductase gene has been mapped to chromosome 5, multiple intronless processed pseudogenes or dihydrofolate reductase-like genes have been identified on separate chromosomes. Dihydrofolate reductase deficiency has been linked to megaloblastic anemia. Several transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been found for this gene.
DHODH	The protein encoded by this gene catalyzes the fourth enzymatic step, the ubiquinone-mediated oxidation of dihydroorotate to orotate, in de novo pyrimidine biosynthesis. This protein is a mitochondrial protein located on the outer surface of the inner mitochondrial membrane.
DHPS	This gene encodes a protein that is required for the formation of hypusine, a unique amino acid formed by the posttranslational modification of only one protein, eukaryotic translation initiation factor 5A. The encoded protein catalyzes the first step in hypusine formation by transferring the butylamine moiety of spermidine to a specific lysine residue of the eukaryotic translation initiation factor 5A precursor, forming an intermediate deoxyhypusine residue. Alternatively spliced transcript variants encoding multiple isoforms have been observed for this gene.
DHX36	This gene is a member of the DEAH-box family of RNA-dependent NTPases which are named after the conserved amino acid sequence Asp-Glu-Ala-His in motif II. The protein encoded by this gene has been shown to enhance the deadenylation and decay of mRNAs with 3'-UTR AU-rich elements (ARE-mRNA). The protein has also been shown to resolve into single strands the highly stable tetramolecular DNA configuration (G4) that can form spontaneously in guanine-rich regions of DNA. Alternative splicing results in multiple transcript variants encoding different isoforms.
DICER1	This gene encodes a protein possessing an RNA helicase motif containing a DEXH box in its amino terminus and an RNA motif in the carboxy terminus. The encoded protein functions as a ribonuclease and is required by the RNA interference and small temporal RNA (stRNA) pathways to produce the active small RNA component that represses gene expression. Alternative splicing results in multiple transcript variants.
DIO1	The protein encoded by this gene belongs to the iodothyronine deiodinase family. It catalyzes the activation, as well as the inactivation of thyroid hormone by outer and inner ring deiodination, respectively. The activation reaction involves the conversion of the prohormone thyroxine (3,5,3',5'-tetraiodothyronine, T4), secreted by the thyroid gland, to the bioactive thyroid hormone (3,5,3'-triiodothyronine, T3) by 5'-deiodination. This protein provides most of the circulating T3, which is essential for growth, differentiation and basal metabolism in vertebrates. This protein is a selenoprotein, containing the rare amino acid selenocysteine (Sec) at its active site. Sec is encoded by the UGA codon, which normally signals translation termination. The 3' UTRs of selenoprotein mRNAs contain a conserved stem-loop structure, designated the Sec insertion sequence (SECIS) element, that is necessary for the recognition of UGA as a Sec codon, rather than as a stop signal. Alternatively spliced transcript variants have been found for this gene.
DIO3	The protein encoded by this intronless gene belongs to the iodothyronine deiodinase family. It catalyzes the inactivation of thyroid hormone by inner ring deiodination of the prohormone thyroxine (T4) and the bioactive hormone 3,3',5-triiodothyronine (T3) to inactive metabolites, 3,3',5'-triiodothyronine (RT3) and 3,3'-diiodothyronine (T2), respectively. This enzyme is highly expressed in pregnant uterus, placenta, fetal and neonatal tissues, and thought to prevent premature exposure of developing fetal tissues to adult levels of thyroid hormones. It regulates circulating fetal thyroid hormone concentrations, and thus plays a critical role in mammalian development. Knockout mice lacking this gene exhibit abnormalities related to development and reproduction, and increased activity of this enzyme in infants with hemangiomas causes severe hypothyroidism. This protein is a selenoprotein, containing the rare selenocysteine (Sec) amino acid at its active site. Sec is encoded by the UGA codon, which normally signals translation termination. The 3' UTRs of selenoprotein mRNAs contain a conserved stem-loop structure, designated the Sec insertion sequence (SECIS) element, that is necessary for the recognition of UGA as a Sec codon rather than as a stop signal.
DKK1	This gene encodes a member of the dickkopf family of proteins. Members of this family are secreted proteins characterized by two cysteine-rich domains that mediate protein-protein interactions. The encoded protein binds to the LRP6 co-receptor and inhibits beta-catenin-dependent Wnt signaling. This gene plays a role in embryonic development and may be important in bone formation in adults. Elevated expression of this gene has been observed in numerous human cancers and this protein may promote proliferation, invasion and growth in cancer cell lines.
DLG4	This gene encodes a member of the membrane-associated guanylate kinase (MAGUK) family. It heteromultimerizes with another MAGUK protein, DLG2, and is recruited into NMDA receptor and potassium channel clusters. These two MAGUK proteins may interact at postsynaptic sites to form a multimeric scaffold for the clustering of receptors, ion channels, and associated signaling proteins. Multiple transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been found for this gene.
DLK1	This gene encodes a transmembrane protein that contains multiple epidermal growth factor repeats that functions as a regulator of cell growth. The encoded protein is involved in the differentiation of several cell types including adipocytes. This gene is located in a region of chromosome 14 frequently showing unparental disomy, and is imprinted and expressed from the paternal allele. A single nucleotide variant in this gene is associated with child and adolescent obesity and shows polar overdominance, where heterozygotes carrying an active paternal allele express the phenotype, while mutant homozygotes are normal.
DLL4	This gene is a homolog of the Drosophila delta gene. The delta gene family encodes Notch ligands that are characterized by a DSL domain, EGF repeats, and a transmembrane domain.
DMPK	The protein encoded by this gene is a serine-threonine kinase that is closely related to other kinases that interact with members of the Rho family of small GTPases. Substrates for this enzyme include myogenin, the beta-subunit of the L-type calcium channels, and phospholemman. The 3' untranslated region of this gene contains 5-38 copies of a CTG trinucleotide repeat. Expansion of this unstable motif to 50-5,000 copies causes myotonic dystrophy type I, which increases in severity with increasing repeat element copy number. Repeat expansion is associated with condensation of local chromatin structure that disrupts the expression of genes in this region. Several alternatively spliced transcript variants of this gene have been described, but the full-length nature of some of these variants has not been determined.
DNAJA1	This gene encodes a member of the DnaJ family of proteins, which act as heat shock protein 70 cochaperones. Heat shock proteins facilitate protein folding, trafficking, prevention of aggregation, and proteolytic degradation. Members of this family are characterized by a highly conserved N-terminal J domain, a glycine/phenylalanine-rich region, four CxxCxGxG zinc finger repeats, and a C-terminal substrate-binding domain. The J domain mediates the interaction with heat shock protein 70 to recruit substrates and regulate ATP hydrolysis activity. In humans, this gene has been implicated in positive regulation of virus replication through co-option by the influenza A virus. Several pseudogenes of this gene are found on other chromosomes.
DNASE1	This gene encodes a member of the DNase family. This protein is stored in the zymogen granules of the nuclear envelope and functions by cleaving DNA in an endonucleolytic manner. At least six autosomal codominant alleles have been characterized, DNASE1*1 through DNASE1*6, and the sequence of DNASE1*2 represented in this record. Mutations in this gene have been associated with systemic lupus erythematosus (SLE), an autoimmune disease. A recombinant form of this protein is used to treat the one of the symptoms of cystic fibrosis by hydrolyzing the extracellular DNA in sputum and reducing its viscosity. Alternate transcriptional splice variants of this gene have been observed but have not been thoroughly characterized.
DNASE1L3	This gene encodes a member of the deoxyribonuclease I family. The encoded protein hydrolyzes DNA, is not inhibited by actin, and mediates the breakdown of DNA during apoptosis. Mutations in this gene are a cause of systemic lupus erythematosus-16. Alternatively spliced transcript variants encoding multiple isoforms have been observed for this gene.
DNASE2	This gene encodes a member of the DNase family. The protein, located in the lysosome, hydrolyzes DNA under acidic conditions and mediates the breakdown of DNA during erythropoiesis and apoptosis. Two codominant alleles have been characterized, DNASE2*L (low activity) and DNASE2*H (high activity), that differ at one nucleotide in the promoter region. The DNASE2*H allele is represented in this record.
DNM1	This gene encodes a member of the dynamin subfamily of GTP-binding proteins. The encoded protein possesses unique mechanochemical properties used to tubulate and sever membranes, and is involved in clathrin-mediated endocytosis and other vesicular trafficking processes. Actin and other cytoskeletal proteins act as binding partners for the encoded protein, which can also self-assemble leading to stimulation of GTPase activity. More than sixty highly conserved copies of the 3' region of this gene are found elsewhere in the genome, particularly on chromosomes Y and 15. Alternatively spliced transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been described.
DNM2	Dynamins represent one of the subfamilies of GTP-binding proteins. These proteins share considerable sequence similarity over the N-terminal portion of the molecule, which contains the GTPase domain. Dynamins are associated with microtubules. They have been implicated in cell processes such as endocytosis and cell motility, and in alterations of the membrane that accompany certain activities such as bone resorption by osteoclasts. Dynamins bind many proteins that bind actin and other cytoskeletal proteins. Dynamins can also self-assemble, a process that stimulates GTPase activity. Five alternatively spliced transcripts encoding different proteins have been described. Additional alternatively spliced transcripts may exist, but their full-length nature has not been determined.
DNMT1	This gene encodes an enzyme that transfers methyl groups to cytosine nucleotides of genomic DNA. This protein is the major enzyme responsible for maintaining methylation patterns following DNA replication and shows a preference for hemi-methylated DNA. Methylation of DNA is an important component of mammalian epigenetic gene regulation. Aberrant methylation patterns are found in human tumors and associated with developmental abnormalities. Variation in this gene has been associated with cerebellar ataxia, deafness, and narcolepsy, and neuropathy, hereditary sensory, type IE. Alternative splicing results in multiple transcript variants.
DNMT3A	CpG methylation is an epigenetic modification that is important for embryonic development, imprinting, and X-chromosome inactivation. Studies in mice have demonstrated that DNA methylation is required for mammalian development. This gene encodes a DNA methyltransferase that is thought to function in de novo methylation, rather than maintenance methylation. The protein localizes to the cytoplasm and nucleus and its expression is developmentally regulated.
DNMT3B	CpG methylation is an epigenetic modification that is important for embryonic development, imprinting, and X-chromosome inactivation. Studies in mice have demonstrated that DNA methylation is required for mammalian development. This gene encodes a DNA methyltransferase which is thought to function in de novo methylation, rather than maintenance methylation. The protein localizes primarily to the nucleus and its expression is developmentally regulated. Mutations in this gene cause the immunodeficiency-centromeric instability-facial anomalies (ICF) syndrome. Eight alternatively spliced transcript variants have been described. The full length sequences of variants 4 and 5 have not been determined.
DNMT3L	CpG methylation is an epigenetic modification that is important for embryonic development, imprinting, and X-chromosome inactivation. Studies in mice have demonstrated that DNA methylation is required for mammalian development. This gene encodes a nuclear protein with similarity to DNA methyltransferases, but is not thought to function as a DNA methyltransferase as it does not contain the amino acid residues necessary for methyltransferase activity. However, it does stimulate de novo methylation by DNA cytosine methyltransferase 3 alpha and is thought to be required for the establishment of maternal genomic imprints. This protein also mediates transcriptional repression through interaction with histone deacetylase 1. Alternatively spliced transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been found for this gene.
DNPEP	The protein encoded by this gene is an aminopeptidase which prefers acidic amino acids, and specifically favors aspartic acid over glutamic acid. It is thought to be a cytosolic protein involved in general metabolism of intracellular proteins. Several transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been found for this gene.
DNPH1	This gene was identified on the basis of its stimulation by c-Myc protein. The latter is a transcription factor that participates in the regulation of cell proliferation, differentiation, and apoptosis. The exact function of this gene is not known but studies in rat suggest a role in cellular proliferation and c-Myc-mediated transformation. Two alternative transcripts encoding different proteins have been described.
DNTT	This gene is a member of the DNA polymerase type-X family and encodes a template-independent DNA polymerase that catalyzes the addition of deoxynucleotides to the 3'-hydroxyl terminus of oligonucleotide primers. In vivo, the encoded protein is expressed in a restricted population of normal and malignant pre-B and pre-T lymphocytes during early differentiation, where it generates antigen receptor diversity by synthesizing non-germ line elements (N-regions) at the junctions of rearranged Ig heavy chain and T cell receptor gene segments. Alternatively spliced transcript variants encoding different isoforms of this gene have been described.
DOT1L	The protein encoded by this gene is a histone methyltransferase that methylates lysine-79 of histone H3. It is inactive against free core histones, but shows significant histone methyltransferase activity against nucleosomes.
DPEP1	The protein encoded by this gene is a kidney membrane enzyme involved in the metabolism of glutathione and other similar proteins by dipeptide hydrolysis. The encoded protein is known to regulate leukotriene activity by catalyzing the conversion of leukotriene D4 to leukotriene E4. This protein uses zinc as a cofactor and acts as a disulfide-linked homodimer. Two transcript variants encoding the same protein have been found for this gene.
DPP3	This gene encodes a protein that is a member of the M49 family of metallopeptidases. This cytoplasmic protein binds a single zinc ion with its zinc-binding motif (HELLGH) and has post-proline dipeptidyl aminopeptidase activity, cleaving Xaa-Pro dipeptides from the N-termini of proteins. Increased activity of this protein is associated with endometrial and ovarian cancers. Alternatively spliced transcript variants have been found for this gene.
DPP4	The protein encoded by this gene is identical to adenosine deaminase complexing protein-2, and to the T-cell activation antigen CD26. It is an intrinsic membrane glycoprotein and a serine exopeptidase that cleaves X-proline dipeptides from the N-terminus of polypeptides.
DPP7	The protein encoded by this gene is a post-proline cleaving aminopeptidase expressed in quiescent lymphocytes. The resting lymphocytes are maintained through suppression of apoptosis, a state which is disrupted by inhibition of this novel serine protease. The enzyme has strong sequence homology with prolylcarboxypeptidase and is active at both acidic and neutral pH.
DPP8	This gene encodes a member of the peptidase S9B family, a small family of dipeptidyl peptidases that are able to cleave peptide substrates at a prolyl bond. The encoded protein shares similarity with dipeptidyl peptidase IV in that it is ubiquitously expressed, and hydrolyzes the same substrates. These similarities suggest that, like dipeptidyl peptidase IV, this protein may play a role in T-cell activation and immune function. Alternatively spliced transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been described.
DPP9	This gene encodes a protein that is a member of the S9B family in clan SC of the serine proteases. The protein has been shown to have post-proline dipeptidyl aminopeptidase activity, cleaving Xaa-Pro dipeptides from the N-termini of proteins. Although the activity of this protein is similar to that of dipeptidyl peptidase 4 (DPP4), it does not appear to be membrane bound. In general, dipeptidyl peptidases appear to be involved in the regulation of the activity of their substrates and have been linked to a variety of diseases including type 2 diabetes, obesity and cancer. Several transcript variants of this gene have been described but not fully characterized.
DPYD	The protein encoded by this gene is a pyrimidine catabolic enzyme and the initial and rate-limiting factor in the pathway of uracil and thymidine catabolism. Mutations in this gene result in dihydropyrimidine dehydrogenase deficiency, an error in pyrimidine metabolism associated with thymine-uraciluria and an increased risk of toxicity in cancer patients receiving 5-fluorouracil chemotherapy. Two transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been found for this gene.
DPYS	Dihydropyrimidinase catalyzes the conversion of 5,6-dihydrouracil to 3-ureidopropionate in pyrimidine metabolism.  Dihydropyrimidinase is expressed at a high level in liver and kidney as a major 2.5-kb transcript and a minor 3.8-kb transcript.  Defects in the DPYS gene are linked to dihydropyrimidinuria.
DRD1	This gene encodes the D1 subtype of the dopamine receptor. The D1 subtype is the most abundant dopamine receptor in the central nervous system. This G-protein coupled receptor stimulates adenylyl cyclase and activates cyclic AMP-dependent protein kinases. D1 receptors regulate neuronal growth and development, mediate some behavioral responses, and modulate dopamine receptor D2-mediated events. Alternate transcription initiation sites result in two transcript variants of this gene.
DRD2	This gene encodes the D2 subtype of the dopamine receptor. This G-protein coupled receptor inhibits adenylyl cyclase activity. A missense mutation in this gene causes myoclonus dystonia; other mutations have been associated with schizophrenia. Alternative splicing of this gene results in two transcript variants encoding different isoforms. A third variant has been described, but it has not been determined whether this form is normal or due to aberrant splicing.
DRD3	This gene encodes the D3 subtype of the five (D1-D5) dopamine receptors. The activity of the D3 subtype receptor is mediated by G proteins which inhibit adenylyl cyclase. This receptor is localized to the limbic areas of the brain, which are associated with cognitive, emotional, and endocrine functions. Genetic variation in this gene may be associated with susceptibility to hereditary essential tremor 1. Alternative splicing of this gene results in transcript variants encoding different isoforms, although some variants may be subject to nonsense-mediated decay (NMD).
DRD4	This gene encodes the D4 subtype of the dopamine receptor. The D4 subtype is a G-protein coupled receptor which inhibits adenylyl cyclase. It is a target for drugs which treat schizophrenia and Parkinson disease. Mutations in this gene have been associated with various behavioral phenotypes, including autonomic nervous system dysfunction, attention deficit/hyperactivity disorder, and the personality trait of novelty seeking. This gene contains a polymorphic number (2-10 copies) of tandem 48 nt repeats; the sequence shown contains four repeats.
DRD5	This gene encodes the D5 subtype of the dopamine receptor. The D5 subtype is a G-protein coupled receptor which stimulates adenylyl cyclase. This receptor is expressed in neurons in the limbic regions of the brain. It has a 10-fold higher affinity for dopamine than the D1 subtype. Pseudogenes related to this gene reside on chromosomes 1 and 2.
DSTYK	This gene encodes a dual serine/threonine and tyrosine protein kinase which is expressed in multiple tissues. It is thought to function as a regulator of cell death. Multiple transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been found for this gene.
DTYMK	Catalyzes the conversion of dTMP to dTDP.
DUS2	This gene encodes a cytoplasmic protein that catalyzes the conversion of uridine residues to dihydrouridine in the D-loop of tRNA. The resulting modified bases confer enhanced regional flexibility to tRNA. The encoded protein may increase the rate of translation by inhibiting an interferon-induced protein kinase. This gene has been implicated in pulmonary carcinogenesis. Alternatively spliced transcript variants have been described for this gene.
DUSP1	The protein encoded by this gene is a phosphatase with dual specificity for tyrosine and threonine. The encoded protein can dephosphorylate MAP kinase MAPK1/ERK2, which results in its involvement in several cellular processes. This protein appears to play an important role in the human cellular response to environmental stress as well as in the negative regulation of cellular proliferation. Finally, the encoded protein can make some solid tumors resistant to both chemotherapy and radiotherapy, making it a target for cancer therapy.
DUSP10	Dual specificity protein phosphatases inactivate their target kinases by dephosphorylating both the phosphoserine/threonine and phosphotyrosine residues. They negatively regulate members of the MAP kinase superfamily, which is associated with cellular proliferation and differentiation. Different members of this family of dual specificity phosphatases show distinct substrate specificities for MAP kinases, different tissue distribution and subcellular localization, and different modes of expression induction by extracellular stimuli. This gene product binds to and inactivates p38 and SAPK/JNK. Alternative splicing results in multiple transcript variants.
DUSP14	Dual-specificity phosphatases (DUSPs) constitute a large heterogeneous subgroup of the type I cysteine-based protein-tyrosine phosphatase superfamily. DUSPs are characterized by their ability to dephosphorylate both tyrosine and serine/threonine residues. They have been implicated as major modulators of critical signaling pathways. DUSP14 contains the consensus DUSP C-terminal catalytic domain but lacks the N-terminal CH2 domain found in the MKP (mitogen-activated protein kinase phosphatase) class of DUSPs (see MIM 600714) (summary by Patterson et al., 2009
DUSP15	The protein encoded by this gene has both protein-tyrosine phophatase activity and serine/threonine-specific phosphatase activity, and therefore is known as a dual specificity phosphatase. This protein may function in the differentiation of oligodendrocytes. Alternative splicing results in multiple transcript variants.
DUSP2	 The protein encoded by this gene is a member of the dual specificity protein phosphatase subfamily.  These phosphatases inactivate their target kinases by dephosphorylating both the phosphoserine/threonine and phosphotyrosine residues.  They negatively regulate members of the mitogen-activated protein (MAP) kinase superfamily (MAPK/ERK, SAPK/JNK, p38), which are associated with cellular proliferation and differentiation.  Different members of the family of dual specificity phosphatases show distinct substrate specificities for various MAP kinases, different tissue distribution and subcellular localization, and different modes of inducibility of their expression by extracellular stimuli.  This gene product inactivates ERK1 and ERK2, is predominantly expressed in hematopoietic tissues, and is localized in the nucleus.
DUSP22	Activates the Jnk signaling pathway. Dephosphorylates and deactivates p38 and stress-activated protein kinase/c-Jun N-terminal kinase (SAPK/JNK) (By similarity).
DUSP23	Protein phosphatase that mediates dephosphorylation of proteins phosphorylated on Tyr and Ser/Thr residues. In vitro, it can dephosphorylate p44-ERK1 (MAPK3) but not p54 SAPK-beta (MAPK10) in vitro. Able to enhance activation of JNK and p38 (MAPK14).
DUSP26	This gene encodes a member of the tyrosine phosphatase family of proteins and exhibits dual specificity by dephosphorylating tyrosine as well as serine and threonine residues. This gene has been described as both a tumor suppressor and an oncogene depending on the cellular context. This protein may regulate neuronal proliferation and has been implicated in the progression of glioblastoma through its ability to dephosphorylate the p53 tumor suppressor. Alternative splicing results in multiple transcript variants.
DUSP3	The protein encoded by this gene is a member of the dual specificity protein phosphatase subfamily. These phosphatases inactivate their target kinases by dephosphorylating both the phosphoserine/threonine and phosphotyrosine residues. They negatively regulate members of the mitogen-activated protein (MAP) kinase superfamily (MAPK/ERK, SAPK/JNK, p38), which are associated with cellular proliferation and differentiation. Different members of the family of dual specificity phosphatases show distinct substrate specificities for various MAP kinases, different tissue distribution and subcellular localization, and different modes of inducibility of their expression by extracellular stimuli. This gene maps in a region that contains the BRCA1 locus which confers susceptibility to breast and ovarian cancer. Although DUSP3 is expressed in both breast and ovarian tissues, mutation screening in breast cancer pedigrees and in sporadic tumors was negative, leading to the conclusion that this gene is not BRCA1.
DUSP4	The protein encoded by this gene is a member of the dual specificity protein phosphatase subfamily. These phosphatases inactivate their target kinases by dephosphorylating both the phosphoserine/threonine and phosphotyrosine residues. They negatively regulate members of the mitogen-activated protein (MAP) kinase superfamily (MAPK/ERK, SAPK/JNK, p38), which are associated with cellular proliferation and differentiation. Different members of the family of dual specificity phosphatases show distinct substrate specificities for various MAP kinases, different tissue distribution and subcellular localization, and different modes of inducibility of their expression by extracellular stimuli. This gene product inactivates ERK1, ERK2 and JNK, is expressed in a variety of tissues, and is localized in the nucleus. Two alternatively spliced transcript variants, encoding distinct isoforms, have been observed for this gene. In addition, multiple polyadenylation sites have been reported.
DUSP5	 The protein encoded by this gene is a member of the dual specificity protein phosphatase subfamily.  These phosphatases inactivate their target kinases by dephosphorylating both the phosphoserine/threonine and phosphotyrosine residues.  They negatively regulate members of the mitogen-activated protein (MAP) kinase superfamily (MAPK/ERK, SAPK/JNK, p38), which are associated with cellular proliferation and differentiation.  Different members of the family of dual specificity phosphatases show distinct substrate specificities for various MAP kinases, different tissue distribution and subcellular localization, and different modes of inducibility of their expression by extracellular stimuli.  This gene product inactivates ERK1, is expressed in a variety of tissues with the highest levels in pancreas and brain, and is localized in the nucleus.
DUSP6	The protein encoded by this gene is a member of the dual specificity protein phosphatase subfamily. These phosphatases inactivate their target kinases by dephosphorylating both the phosphoserine/threonine and phosphotyrosine residues. They negatively regulate members of the mitogen-activated protein (MAP) kinase superfamily (MAPK/ERK, SAPK/JNK, p38), which are associated with cellular proliferation and differentiation. Different members of the family of dual specificity phosphatases show distinct substrate specificities for various MAP kinases, different tissue distribution and subcellular localization, and different modes of inducibility of their expression by extracellular stimuli. This gene product inactivates ERK2, is expressed in a variety of tissues with the highest levels in heart and pancreas, and unlike most other members of this family, is localized in the cytoplasm. Mutations in this gene have been associated with congenital hypogonadotropic hypogonadism. Alternatively spliced transcript variants have been found for this gene.
DUT	This gene encodes an essential enzyme of nucleotide metabolism. The encoded protein forms a ubiquitous, homotetrameric enzyme that hydrolyzes dUTP to dUMP and pyrophosphate. This reaction serves two cellular purposes: providing a precursor (dUMP) for the synthesis of thymine nucleotides needed for DNA replication, and limiting intracellular pools of dUTP. Elevated levels of dUTP lead to increased incorporation of uracil into DNA, which induces extensive excision repair mediated by uracil glycosylase. This repair process, resulting in the removal and reincorporation of dUTP, is self-defeating and leads to DNA fragmentation and cell death. Alternative splicing of this gene leads to different isoforms that localize to either the mitochondrion or nucleus. A related pseudogene is located on chromosome 19.
DVL1	DVL1, the human homolog of the Drosophila dishevelled gene (dsh) encodes a cytoplasmic phosphoprotein that regulates cell proliferation, acting as a transducer molecule for developmental processes, including segmentation and neuroblast specification. DVL1 is a candidate gene for neuroblastomatous transformation. The Schwartz-Jampel syndrome and Charcot-Marie-Tooth disease type 2A have been mapped to the same region as DVL1. The phenotypes of these diseases may be consistent with defects which might be expected from aberrant expression of a DVL gene during development.
DVL2	This gene encodes a member of the dishevelled (dsh) protein family. The vertebrate dsh proteins have approximately 40% amino acid sequence similarity with Drosophila dsh. This gene encodes a 90-kD protein that undergoes posttranslational phosphorylation to form a 95-kD cytoplasmic protein, which may play a role in the signal transduction pathway mediated by multiple Wnt proteins. The mechanisms of dishevelled function in Wnt signaling are likely to be conserved among metazoans.
DVL3	This gene is a member of a multi-gene family which shares strong similarity with the Drosophila dishevelled gene, dsh. The Drosophila dishevelled gene encodes a cytoplasmic phosphoprotein that regulates cell proliferation.
DYRK1A	This gene encodes a member of the Dual-specificity tyrosine phosphorylation-regulated kinase (DYRK) family. This member contains a nuclear targeting signal sequence, a protein kinase domain, a leucine zipper motif, and a highly conservative 13-consecutive-histidine repeat. It catalyzes its autophosphorylation on serine/threonine and tyrosine residues. It may play a significant role in a signaling pathway regulating cell proliferation and may be involved in brain development. This gene is a homolog of Drosophila mnb (minibrain) gene and rat Dyrk gene. It is localized in the Down syndrome critical region of chromosome 21, and is considered to be a strong candidate gene for learning defects associated with Down syndrome. Alternative splicing of this gene generates several transcript variants differing from each other either in the 5' UTR or in the 3' coding region. These variants encode at least five different isoforms.
DYRK1B	This gene encodes a member of a family of nuclear-localized protein kinases. The encoded protein participates in the regulation of the cell cycle. Expression of this gene may be altered in tumor cells, and mutations in this gene were found to cause abdominal obesity-metabolic syndrome 3. Alternative splicing results in multiple transcript variants.
DYRK2	 DYRK2 belongs to a family of protein kinases whose members are presumed to be involved in cellular growth and/or development.  The family is defined by structural similarity of their kinase domains and their capability to autophosphorylate on tyrosine residues.  DYRK2 has demonstrated tyrosine autophosphorylation and catalyzed phosphorylation of histones H3 and H2B in vitro.  Two isoforms of DYRK2 have been isolated.  The predominant isoform, isoform 1, lacks a 5' terminal insert.
DYRK3	This gene product belongs to the DYRK family of dual-specificity protein kinases that catalyze autophosphorylation on serine/threonine and tyrosine residues. The members of this family share structural similarity, however, differ in their substrate specificity, suggesting their involvement in different cellular functions. The encoded protein has been shown to autophosphorylate on tyrosine residue and catalyze phosphorylation of histones H3 and H2B in vitro. Alternatively spliced transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been identified.
DYRK4	This gene encodes an enzyme that belongs to a conserved family of serine/threonine protein kinases. Members of this dual specificity kinase family are thought to function in the regulation of cell differentiation and proliferation, survival, and in development. Alternate splicing results in multiple transcript variants. Additional alternatively spliced transcript variants of this gene have been described, but their full-length nature is not known.
E2F1	The protein encoded by this gene is a member of the E2F family of transcription factors. The E2F family plays a crucial role in the control of cell cycle and action of tumor suppressor proteins and is also a target of the transforming proteins of small DNA tumor viruses. The E2F proteins contain several evolutionally conserved domains found in most members of the family. These domains include a DNA binding domain, a dimerization domain which determines interaction with the differentiation regulated transcription factor proteins (DP), a transactivation domain enriched in acidic amino acids, and a tumor suppressor protein association domain which is embedded within the transactivation domain.  This protein and another 2 members, E2F2 and E2F3, have an additional cyclin binding domain. This protein binds preferentially to retinoblastoma protein pRB in a cell-cycle dependent manner. It can mediate both cell proliferation and p53-dependent/independent apoptosis.
EBP	The protein encoded by this gene is an integral membrane protein of the endoplasmic reticulum. It is a high affinity binding protein for the antiischemic phenylalkylamine Ca2+ antagonist
EBPL	Does not possess sterol isomerase activity and does not bind sigma ligands.
ECE1	The protein encoded by this gene is involved in proteolytic processing of endothelin precursors to biologically active peptides. Mutations in this gene are associated with Hirschsprung disease, cardiac defects and autonomic dysfunction. Alternatively spliced transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been noted for this gene.
ECE2	Converts big endothelin-1 to endothelin-1. Also involved in the processing of various neuroendocrine peptides, including neurotensin, angiotensin I, substance P, proenkephalin-derived peptides, and prodynorphin-derived peptides. May play a role in amyloid-beta processing (By similarity).
EDAR	This gene encodes a member of the tumor necrosis factor receptor family. The encoded transmembrane protein is a receptor for the soluble ligand ectodysplasin A, and can activate the nuclear factor-kappaB, JNK, and caspase-independent cell death pathways. It is required for the development of hair, teeth, and other ectodermal derivatives. Mutations in this gene result in autosomal dominant and recessive forms of hypohidrotic ectodermal dysplasia.
EDNRA	This gene encodes the receptor for endothelin-1, a peptide that plays a role in potent and long-lasting vasoconstriction. This receptor associates with guanine-nucleotide-binding (G) proteins, and this coupling activates a phosphatidylinositol-calcium second messenger system. Polymorphisms in this gene have been linked to migraine headache resistance. Alternative splicing results in multiple transcript variants.
EDNRB	The protein encoded by this gene is a G protein-coupled receptor which activates a phosphatidylinositol-calcium second messenger system. Its ligand, endothelin, consists of a family of three potent vasoactive peptides: ET1, ET2, and ET3. Studies suggest that the multigenic disorder, Hirschsprung disease type 2, is due to mutations in the endothelin receptor type B gene. Alternative splicing and the use of alternative promoters results in multiple transcript variants.
EED	This gene encodes a member of the Polycomb-group (PcG) family. PcG family members form multimeric protein complexes, which are involved in maintaining the transcriptional repressive state of genes over successive cell generations. This protein interacts with enhancer of zeste 2, the cytoplasmic tail of integrin beta7, immunodeficiency virus type 1 (HIV-1) MA protein, and histone deacetylase proteins. This protein mediates repression of gene activity through histone deacetylation, and may act as a specific regulator of integrin function. Two transcript variants encoding distinct isoforms have been identified for this gene.
EEF1A1	This gene encodes an isoform of the alpha subunit of the elongation factor-1 complex, which is responsible for the enzymatic delivery of aminoacyl tRNAs to the ribosome. This isoform (alpha 1) is expressed in brain, placenta, lung, liver, kidney, and pancreas, and the other isoform (alpha 2) is expressed in brain, heart and skeletal muscle. This isoform is identified as an autoantigen in 66% of patients with Felty syndrome. This gene has been found to have multiple copies on many chromosomes, some of which, if not all, represent different pseudogenes.
EEF1A2	This gene encodes an isoform of the alpha subunit of the elongation factor-1 complex, which is responsible for the enzymatic delivery of aminoacyl tRNAs to the ribosome. This isoform (alpha 2) is expressed in brain, heart and skeletal muscle, and the other isoform (alpha 1) is expressed in brain, placenta, lung, liver, kidney, and pancreas. This gene may be critical in the development of ovarian cancer.
EEF2	This gene encodes a member of the GTP-binding translation elongation factor family. This protein is an essential factor for protein synthesis. It promotes the GTP-dependent translocation of the nascent protein chain from the A-site to the P-site of the ribosome. This protein is completely inactivated by EF-2 kinase phosporylation.
EEF2K	This gene encodes a highly conserved protein kinase in the calmodulin-mediated signaling pathway that links activation of cell surface receptors to cell division. This kinase is involved in the regulation of protein synthesis. It phosphorylates eukaryotic elongation factor 2 (EEF2) and thus inhibits the EEF2 function. The activity of this kinase is increased in many cancers and may be a valid target for anti-cancer treatment.
EFNA2	This gene encodes a member of the ephrin family. The protein is composed of a signal sequence, a receptor-binding region, a spacer region, and a hydrophobic region. The EPH and EPH-related receptors comprise the largest subfamily of receptor protein-tyrosine kinases and have been implicated in mediating developmental events, particularly in the nervous system. Based on their structures and sequence relationships, ephrins are divided into the ephrin-A (EFNA) class, which are anchored to the membrane by a glycosylphosphatidylinositol linkage, and the ephrin-B (EFNB) class, which are transmembrane proteins. Posttranslational modifications determine whether this protein localizes to the nucleus or the cytoplasm.
EGF	This gene encodes a member of the epidermal growth factor superfamily. The encoded preproprotein is proteolytically processed to generate the 53-amino acid epidermal growth factor peptide. This protein acts a potent mitogenic factor that plays an important role in the growth, proliferation and differentiation of numerous cell types. This protein acts by binding with high affinity to the cell surface receptor, epidermal growth factor receptor. Defects in this gene are the cause of hypomagnesemia type 4. Dysregulation of this gene has been associated with the growth and progression of certain cancers. Alternative splicing results in multiple transcript variants, at least one of which encodes a preproprotein that is proteolytically processed.
EGFL7	This gene encodes a secreted endothelial cell protein that contains two epidermal growth factor-like domains. The encoded protein may play a role in regulating vasculogenesis. This protein may be involved in the growth and proliferation of tumor cells. Alternate splicing results in multiple transcript variants.
EGFR	The protein encoded by this gene is a transmembrane glycoprotein that is a member of the protein kinase superfamily. This protein is a receptor for members of the epidermal growth factor family. EGFR is a cell surface protein that binds to epidermal growth factor. Binding of the protein to a ligand induces receptor dimerization and tyrosine autophosphorylation and leads to cell proliferation. Mutations in this gene are associated with lung cancer.
EGLN1	The protein encoded by this gene catalyzes the post-translational formation of 4-hydroxyproline in hypoxia-inducible factor (HIF) alpha proteins. HIF is a transcriptional complex that plays a central role in mammalian oxygen homeostasis. This protein functions as a cellular oxygen sensor, and under normal oxygen concentration, modification by prolyl hydroxylation is a key regulatory event that targets HIF subunits for proteasomal destruction via the von Hippel-Lindau ubiquitylation complex. Mutations in this gene are associated with erythrocytosis familial type 3 (ECYT3).
EGLN2	The hypoxia inducible factor (HIF) is a transcriptional complex that is involved in oxygen homeostasis. At normal oxygen levels, the alpha subunit of HIF is targeted for degration by prolyl hydroxylation. This gene encodes an enzyme responsible for this post-translational modification. Alternative splicing results in multiple transcript variants. Read-through transcription also exists between this gene and the upstream RAB4B (RAB4B, member RAS oncogene family) gene.
EGLN3	Cellular oxygen sensor that catalyzes, under normoxic conditions, the post-translational formation of 4-hydroxyproline in hypoxia-inducible factor (HIF) alpha proteins. Hydroxylates a specific proline found in each of the oxygen-dependent degradation (ODD) domains (N-terminal, NODD, and C-terminal, CODD) of HIF1A. Also hydroxylates HIF2A. Has a preference for the CODD site for both HIF1A and HIF2A. Hydroxylation on the NODD site by EGLN3 appears to require prior hydroxylation on the CODD site. Hydroxylated HIFs are then targeted for proteasomal degradation via the von Hippel-Lindau ubiquitination complex. Under hypoxic conditions, the hydroxylation reaction is attenuated allowing HIFs to escape degradation resulting in their translocation to the nucleus, heterodimerization with HIF1B, and increased expression of hypoxy-inducible genes. EGLN3 is the most important isozyme in limiting physiological activation of HIFs (particularly HIF2A) in hypoxia. Also hydroxylates PKM in hypoxia, limiting glycolysis. Under normoxia, hydroxylates and regulates the stability of ADRB2. Regulator of cardiomyocyte and neuronal apoptosis. In cardiomyocytes, inhibits the anti-apoptotic effect of BCL2 by disrupting the BAX-BCL2 complex. In neurons, has a NGF-induced proapoptotic effect, probably through regulating CASP3 activity. Also essential for hypoxic regulation of neutrophilic inflammation. Plays a crucial role in DNA damage response (DDR) by hydroxylating TELO2, promoting its interaction with ATR which is required for activation of the ATR/CHK1/p53 pathway. Target proteins are preferentially recognized via a LXXLAP motif.
EGR1	The protein encoded by this gene belongs to the EGR family of C2H2-type zinc-finger proteins. It is a nuclear protein and functions as a transcriptional regulator. The products of target genes it activates are required for differentitation and mitogenesis. Studies suggest this is a cancer suppressor gene.
EHMT1	The protein encoded by this gene is a histone methyltransferase that methylates the lysine-9 position of histone H3. This action marks the genomic region packaged with these methylated histones for transcriptional repression. This protein may be involved in the silencing of MYC- and E2F-responsive genes and therefore could play a role in the G0/G1 cell cycle transition. Defects in this gene are a cause of chromosome 9q subtelomeric deletion syndrome (9q-syndrome, also known as Kleefstra syndrome). Alternative splicing results in multiple transcript variants.
EHMT2	This gene encodes a methyltransferase that methylates lysine residues of histone H3. Methylation of H3 at lysine 9 by this protein results in recruitment of additional epigenetic regulators and repression of transcription. This gene was initially thought to be two different genes, NG36 and G9a, adjacent to each other in the HLA locus. Alternative splicing results in multiple transcript variants.
EIF2AK1	The protein encoded by this gene acts at the level of translation initiation to downregulate protein synthesis in response to stress. The encoded protein is a kinase that can be inactivated by hemin. Two transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been found for this gene.
EIF2AK2	The protein encoded by this gene is a serine/threonine protein kinase that is activated by autophosphorylation after binding to dsRNA. The activated form of the encoded protein can phosphorylate translation initiation factor EIF2S1, which in turn inhibits protein synthesis. This protein is also activated by manganese ions and heparin. Three transcript variants encoding two different isoforms have been found for this gene.
EIF2AK3	The protein encoded by this gene phosphorylates the alpha subunit of eukaryotic translation-initiation factor 2, leading to its inactivation, and thus to a rapid reduction of translational initiation and repression of global protein synthesis. This protein is thought to modulate mitochondrial function. It is a type I membrane protein located in the endoplasmic reticulum (ER), where it is induced by ER stress caused by malfolded proteins. Mutations in this gene are associated with Wolcott-Rallison syndrome.
EIF2S1	The translation initiation factor EIF2 catalyzes the first regulated step of protein synthesis initiation, promoting the binding of the initiator tRNA to 40S ribosomal subunits. Binding occurs as a ternary complex of methionyl-tRNA, EIF2, and GTP. EIF2 is composed of 3 nonidentical subunits, the 36-kD EIF2-alpha subunit (EIF2S1), the 38-kD EIF2-beta subunit (EIF2S2; MIM 603908), and the 52-kD EIF2-gamma subunit (EIF2S3; MIM 300161). The rate of formation of the ternary complex is modulated by the phosphorylation state of EIF2-alpha (Ernst et al., 1987
EIF3F	Component of the eukaryotic translation initiation factor 3 (eIF-3) complex, which is required for several steps in the initiation of protein synthesis .
EIF4A1	ATP-dependent RNA helicase which is a subunit of the eIF4F complex involved in cap recognition and is required for mRNA binding to ribosome. In the current model of translation initiation, eIF4A unwinds RNA secondary structures in the 5'-UTR of mRNAs which is necessary to allow efficient binding of the small ribosomal subunit, and subsequent scanning for the initiator codon.
EIF4B	Required for the binding of mRNA to ribosomes. Functions in close association with EIF4-F and EIF4-A. Binds near the 5'-terminal cap of mRNA in presence of EIF-4F and ATP. Promotes the ATPase activity and the ATP-dependent RNA unwinding activity of both EIF4-A and EIF4-F.
EIF4E	The protein encoded by this gene is a component of the eukaryotic translation initiation factor 4F complex, which recognizes the 7-methylguanosine cap structure at the 5' end of messenger RNAs. The encoded protein aids in translation initiation by recruiting ribosomes to the 5'-cap structure. Association of this protein with the 4F complex is the rate-limiting step in translation initiation. This gene acts as a proto-oncogene, and its expression and activation is associated with transformation and tumorigenesis. Several pseudogenes of this gene are found on other chromosomes. Alternative splicing results in multiple transcript variants.
EIF4EBP1	This gene encodes one member of a family of translation repressor proteins. The protein directly interacts with eukaryotic translation initiation factor 4E (eIF4E), which is a limiting component of the multisubunit complex that recruits 40S ribosomal subunits to the 5' end of mRNAs. Interaction of this protein with eIF4E inhibits complex assembly and represses translation. This protein is phosphorylated in response to various signals including UV irradiation and insulin signaling, resulting in its dissociation from eIF4E and activation of mRNA translation.
EIF4H	This gene encodes one of the translation initiation factors, which functions to stimulate the initiation of protein synthesis at the level of mRNA utilization. This gene is deleted in Williams syndrome, a multisystem developmental disorder caused by the deletion of contiguous genes at 7q11.23. Alternative splicing of this gene generates 2 transcript variants.
ELANE	Elastases form a subfamily of serine proteases that hydrolyze many proteins in addition to elastin. Humans have six elastase genes which encode structurally similar proteins. The encoded preproprotein is proteolytically processed to generate the active protease. Following activation, this protease hydrolyzes proteins within specialized neutrophil lysosomes, called azurophil granules, as well as proteins of the extracellular matrix. The enzyme may play a role in degenerative and inflammatory diseases through proteolysis of collagen-IV and elastin. This protein also degrades the outer membrane protein A (OmpA) of E. coli as well as the virulence factors of such bacteria as Shigella, Salmonella and Yersinia. Mutations in this gene are associated with cyclic neutropenia and severe congenital neutropenia (SCN). This gene is present in a gene cluster on chromosome 19.
ELAVL1	The protein encoded by this gene is a member of the ELAVL family of RNA-binding proteins that contain several RNA recognition motifs, and selectively bind AU-rich elements (AREs) found in the 3' untranslated regions of mRNAs. AREs signal degradation of mRNAs as a means to regulate gene expression, thus by binding AREs, the ELAVL family of proteins play a role in stabilizing ARE-containing mRNAs. This gene has been implicated in a variety of biological processes and has been linked to a number of diseases, including cancer. It is highly expressed in many cancers, and could be potentially useful in cancer diagnosis, prognosis, and therapy.
ELF3	Transcriptional activator that binds and transactivates ETS sequences containing the consensus nucleotide core sequence GGA. Acts synergistically with POU2F3 to transactivate the SPRR2A promoter and with RUNX1 to transactivate the ANGPT1 promoter. Also transactivates collagenase, CCL20, CLND7, FLG, KRT8, NOS2, PTGS2, SPRR2B, TGFBR2 and TGM3 promoters. Represses KRT4 promoter activity. Involved in mediating vascular inflammation. May play an important role in epithelial cell differentiation and tumorigenesis. May be a critical downstream effector of the ERBB2 signaling pathway. May be associated with mammary gland development and involution. Plays an important role in the regulation of transcription with TATA-less promoters in preimplantation embryos, which is essential in preimplantation development (By similarity).
ELK1	This gene is a member of the Ets family of transcription factors and of the ternary complex factor (TCF) subfamily. Proteins of the TCF subfamily form a ternary complex by binding to the the serum response factor and the serum response element in the promoter of the c-fos proto-oncogene. The protein encoded by this gene is a nuclear target for the ras-raf-MAPK signaling cascade. This gene produces multiple isoforms by using alternative translational start codons and by alternative splicing. Related pseudogenes have been identified on chromosomes 7 and 14.
ELN	This gene encodes a protein that is one of the two components of elastic fibers. Elastic fibers comprise part of the extracellular matrix and confer elasticity to organs and tissues including the heart, skin, lungs, ligaments, and blood vessels. The encoded protein is rich in hydrophobic amino acids such as glycine and proline, which form mobile hydrophobic regions bounded by crosslinks between lysine residues. Degradation products of the encoded protein, known as elastin-derived peptides or elastokines, bind the elastin receptor complex and other receptors and stimulate migration and proliferation of monocytes and skin fibroblasts. Elastokines can also contribute to cancer progression. Deletions and mutations in this gene are associated with supravalvular aortic stenosis (SVAS) and autosomal dominant cutis laxa.
ELOVL1	Catalyzes the first and rate-limiting reaction of the four reactions that constitute the long-chain fatty acids elongation cycle. This endoplasmic reticulum-bound enzymatic process allows the addition of 2 carbons to the chain of long- and very long-chain fatty acids (VLCFAs) per cycle. Condensing enzyme that exhibits activity toward saturated and monounsaturated acyl-CoA substrates, with the highest activity towards C22:0 acyl-CoA. May participate in the production of both saturated and monounsaturated VLCFAs of different chain lengths that are involved in multiple biological processes as precursors of membrane lipids and lipid mediators. Important for saturated C24:0 and monounsaturated C24:1 sphingolipid synthesis. Indirectly inhibits RPE65 via production of VLCFAs.
ELOVL2	Catalyzes the first and rate-limiting reaction of the four reactions that constitute the long-chain fatty acids elongation cycle. This endoplasmic reticulum-bound enzymatic process allows the addition of 2 carbons to the chain of long- and very long-chain fatty acids (VLCFAs) per cycle. Condensing enzyme that catalyzes the synthesis of polyunsaturated very long chain fatty acid (C20- and C22-PUFA), acting specifically toward polyunsaturated acyl-CoA with the higher activity toward C20:4(n-6) acyl-CoA. May participate in the production of polyunsaturated VLCFAs of different chain lengths that are involved in multiple biological processes as precursors of membrane lipids and lipid mediators.
ELOVL3	This gene encodes a protein that belongs to the GNS1/SUR4 family. Members of this family play a role in elongation of long chain fatty acids to provide precursors for synthesis of sphingolipids and ceramides.
ELOVL5	This gene belongs to the ELO family. It is highly expressed in the adrenal gland and testis, and encodes a multi-pass membrane protein that is localized in the endoplasmic reticulum. This protein is involved in the elongation of long-chain polyunsaturated fatty acids. Mutations in this gene have been associated with spinocerebellar ataxia-38 (SCA38). Alternatively spliced transcript variants have been found for this gene.
ELOVL6	Fatty acid elongases (EC 6.2.1.3), such as ELOVL6, use malonyl-CoA as a 2-carbon donor in the first and rate-limiting step of fatty acid elongation (Moon et al., 2001
EML4	This gene is a member of the echinoderm microtubule associated protein-like family. The encoded WD-repeat protein may be involved in microtubule formation. Abnormal fusion of parts of this gene with portions of the anaplastic lymphoma receptor tyrosine kinase gene, which generates EML4-ALK fusion transcripts, is one of the primary mutations associated with non-small cell lung cancer. Alternative splicing of this gene results in two transcript variants.
ENDOG	The protein encoded by this gene is a nuclear encoded endonuclease that is localized in the mitochondrion. The encoded protein is widely distributed among animals and cleaves DNA at GC tracts. This protein is capable of generating the RNA primers required by DNA polymerase gamma to initiate replication of mitochondrial DNA.
ENG	This gene encodes a homodimeric transmembrane protein which is a major glycoprotein of the vascular endothelium. This protein is a component of the transforming growth factor beta receptor complex and it binds to the beta1 and beta3 peptides with high affinity. Mutations in this gene cause hereditary hemorrhagic telangiectasia, also known as Osler-Rendu-Weber syndrome 1, an autosomal dominant multisystemic vascular dysplasia. This gene may also be involved in preeclampsia and several types of cancer. Alternatively spliced transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been found for this gene.
ENGASE	This gene encodes a cytosolic enzyme which catalyzes the hydrolysis of peptides and proteins with mannose modifications to produce free oligosaccharides.
ENO1	This gene encodes alpha-enolase, one of three enolase isoenzymes found in mammals. Each isoenzyme is a homodimer composed of 2 alpha, 2 gamma, or 2 beta subunits, and functions as a glycolytic enzyme. Alpha-enolase in addition, functions as a structural lens protein (tau-crystallin) in the monomeric form. Alternative splicing of this gene results in a shorter isoform that has been shown to bind to the c-myc promoter and function as a tumor suppressor. Several pseudogenes have been identified, including one on the long arm of chromosome 1. Alpha-enolase has also been identified as an autoantigen in Hashimoto encephalopathy.
ENOX2	This gene is a tumor-specific member of the ECTO-NOX family of genes that encode cell surface NADH oxidases. The encoded protein has two enzymatic activities: catalysis of hydroquinone or NADH oxidation, and protein disulfide interchange. The protein also displays prion-like properties. Alternative splicing results in multiple transcript variants.
ENPEP	Regulates central hypertension through its calcium-modulated preference to cleave N-terminal acidic residues from peptides such as angiotensin II.
ENPP1	This gene is a member of the ecto-nucleotide pyrophosphatase/phosphodiesterase (ENPP) family. The encoded protein is a type II transmembrane glycoprotein comprising two identical disulfide-bonded subunits. This protein has broad specificity and cleaves a variety of substrates, including phosphodiester bonds of nucleotides and nucleotide sugars and pyrophosphate bonds of nucleotides and nucleotide sugars. This protein may function to hydrolyze nucleoside 5' triphosphates to their corresponding monophosphates and may also hydrolyze diadenosine polyphosphates. Mutations in this gene have been associated with 'idiopathic' infantile arterial calcification, ossification of the posterior longitudinal ligament of the spine (OPLL), and insulin resistance.
ENPP2	The protein encoded by this gene functions as both a phosphodiesterase, which cleaves phosphodiester bonds at the 5' end of oligonucleotides, and a phospholipase, which catalyzes production of lysophosphatidic acid (LPA) in extracellular fluids. LPA evokes growth factor-like responses including stimulation of cell proliferation and chemotaxis. This gene product stimulates the motility of tumor cells and has angiogenic properties, and its expression is upregulated in several kinds of carcinomas. The gene product is secreted and further processed to make the biologically active form. Several alternatively spliced transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been identified.
ENPP3	The protein encoded by this gene belongs to a series of ectoenzymes that are involved in hydrolysis of extracellular nucleotides. These ectoenzymes possess ATPase and ATP pyrophosphatase activities and are type II transmembrane proteins. Expression of the related rat mRNA has been found in a subset of immature glial cells and in the alimentary tract. The corresponding rat protein has been detected in the pancreas, small intestine, colon, and liver. The human mRNA is expressed in glioma cells, prostate, and uterus. Expression of the human protein has been detected in uterus, basophils, and mast cells. Two transcript variants, one protein coding and the other non-protein coding, have been found for this gene.
ENPP6	Choline-specific glycerophosphodiester phosphodiesterase. The preferred substrate may be lysosphingomyelin (By similarity). Hydrolyzes lysophosphatidylcholine (LPC) to form monoacylglycerol and phosphorylcholine but not lysophosphatidic acid, showing it has a lysophospholipase C activity. Has a preference for LPC with short (12:0 and 14:0) or polyunsaturated (18:2 and 20:4) fatty acids. Also hydrolyzes glycerophosphorylcholine and sphingosylphosphorylcholine efficiently. Hydrolyzes the classical substrate for phospholipase C, p-nitrophenyl phosphorylcholine in vitro, while it does not hydrolyze the classical nucleotide phosphodiesterase substrate, p-nitrophenyl thymidine 5'-monophosphate. Does not hydrolyze diacyl phospholipids such as phosphatidylethanolamine, phosphatidylinositol, phosphatidylserine, phosphatidylglycerol and phosphatidic acid.
ENPP7	The protein encoded by this gene is an intestinal alkaline sphingomyelin phosphodiesterase that converts sphingomyelin to ceramide and phosphocholine. The encoded protein is anchored in the cell membrane, and it may function to protect the intestinal mucosa from inflammation and tumorigenesis. This protein is glycosylated and also exhibits lysophosphatidylcholine hydrolase activity.
ENTPD1	The protein encoded by this gene is a plasma membrane protein that hydrolyzes extracellular ATP and ADP to AMP. Inhibition of this protein's activity may confer anticancer benefits. Several transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been found for this gene.
ENTPD2	The protein encoded by this gene is the type 2 enzyme of the ecto-nucleoside triphosphate diphosphohydrolase family (E-NTPDase). E-NTPDases are a family of ecto-nucleosidases that hydrolyze 5'-triphosphates. This ecto-ATPase is an integral membrane protein. Alternative splicing of this gene results in multiple transcript variants.
ENTPD3	This gene encodes a plasma membrane-bound divalent cation-dependent E-type nucleotidase. The encoded protein is involved in the regulation of extracellular levels of ATP by hydrolysis of it and other nucleotides. Multiple transcript variants have been described.
ENTPD4	This gene encodes a member of the apyrase protein family. Apyrases are enzymes that catalyze the hydrolysis of nucleotide diphosphates and triphosphates in a calcium or magnesium-dependent manner. The encoded protein is an endo-apyrase and may play a role in salvaging nucleotides from lysosomes. Alternatively spliced transcript variants encoding multiple isoforms have been observed for this gene, and these isoforms may differ in divalent cation dependence and substrate specificity.
ENTPD8	Canalicular ectonucleoside NTPDase responsible for the main hepatic NTPDase activity. Ectonucleoside NTPDases catalyze the hydrolysis of gamma- and beta-phosphate residues of nucleotides, playing a central role in concentration of extracellular nucleotides. Has activity toward ATP, ADP, UTP and UDP, but not toward AMP.
EP300	This gene encodes the adenovirus E1A-associated cellular p300 transcriptional co-activator protein. It functions as histone acetyltransferase that regulates transcription via chromatin remodeling and is important in the processes of cell proliferation and differentiation. It mediates cAMP-gene regulation by binding specifically to phosphorylated CREB protein. This gene has also been identified as a co-activator of HIF1A (hypoxia-inducible factor 1 alpha), and thus plays a role in the stimulation of hypoxia-induced genes such as VEGF. Defects in this gene are a cause of Rubinstein-Taybi syndrome and may also play a role in epithelial cancer.
EPAS1	This gene encodes a transcription factor involved in the induction of genes regulated by oxygen, which is induced as oxygen levels fall. The encoded protein contains a basic-helix-loop-helix domain protein dimerization domain as well as a domain found in proteins in signal transduction pathways which respond to oxygen levels. Mutations in this gene are associated with erythrocytosis familial type 4.
EPCAM	This gene encodes a carcinoma-associated antigen and is a member of a family that includes at least two type I membrane proteins. This antigen is expressed on most normal epithelial cells and gastrointestinal carcinomas and functions as a homotypic calcium-independent cell adhesion molecule. The antigen is being used as a target for immunotherapy treatment of human carcinomas. Mutations in this gene result in congenital tufting enteropathy.
EPHA1	This gene belongs to the ephrin receptor subfamily of the protein-tyrosine kinase family. EPH and EPH-related receptors have been implicated in mediating developmental events, particularly in the nervous system. Receptors in the EPH subfamily typically have a single kinase domain and an extracellular region containing a Cys-rich domain and 2 fibronectin type III repeats. The ephrin receptors are divided into 2 groups based on the similarity of their extracellular domain sequences and their affinities for binding ephrin-A and ephrin-B ligands. This gene is expressed in some human cancer cell lines and has been implicated in carcinogenesis.
EPHA2	This gene belongs to the ephrin receptor subfamily of the protein-tyrosine kinase family. EPH and EPH-related receptors have been implicated in mediating developmental events, particularly in the nervous system. Receptors in the EPH subfamily typically have a single kinase domain and an extracellular region containing a Cys-rich domain and 2 fibronectin type III repeats. The ephrin receptors are divided into 2 groups based on the similarity of their extracellular domain sequences and their affinities for binding ephrin-A and ephrin-B ligands. This gene encodes a protein that binds ephrin-A ligands. Mutations in this gene are the cause of certain genetically-related cataract disorders.
EPHA3	This gene belongs to the ephrin receptor subfamily of the protein-tyrosine kinase family. EPH and EPH-related receptors have been implicated in mediating developmental events, particularly in the nervous system. Receptors in the EPH subfamily typically have a single kinase domain and an extracellular region containing a Cys-rich domain and 2 fibronectin type III repeats. The ephrin receptors are divided into 2 groups based on the similarity of their extracellular domain sequences and their affinities for binding ephrin-A and ephrin-B ligands. This gene encodes a protein that binds ephrin-A ligands. Two alternatively spliced transcript variants have been described for this gene.
EPHA4	This gene belongs to the ephrin receptor subfamily of the protein-tyrosine kinase family. EPH and EPH-related receptors have been implicated in mediating developmental events, particularly in the nervous system. Receptors in the EPH subfamily typically have a single kinase domain and an extracellular region containing a Cys-rich domain and 2 fibronectin type III repeats. The ephrin receptors are divided into 2 groups based on the similarity of their extracellular domain sequences and their affinities for binding ephrin-A and ephrin-B ligands. Multiple transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been found for this gene.
EPHA5	This gene belongs to the ephrin receptor subfamily of the protein-tyrosine kinase family. EPH and EPH-related receptors have been implicated in mediating developmental events, particularly in the nervous system. Receptors in the EPH subfamily typically have a single kinase domain and an extracellular region containing a Cys-rich domain and 2 fibronectin type III repeats. The ephrin receptors are divided into 2 groups based on the similarity of their extracellular domain sequences and their affinities for binding ephrin-A and ephrin-B ligands. Alternatively spliced transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been described.
EPHA6	Receptor tyrosine kinase which binds promiscuously GPI-anchored ephrin-A family ligands residing on adjacent cells, leading to contact-dependent bidirectional signaling into neighboring cells. The signaling pathway downstream of the receptor is referred to as forward signaling while the signaling pathway downstream of the ephrin ligand is referred to as reverse signaling (By similarity).
EPHA7	This gene belongs to the ephrin receptor subfamily of the protein-tyrosine kinase family. EPH and EPH-related receptors have been implicated in mediating developmental events, particularly in the nervous system. Receptors in the EPH subfamily typically have a single kinase domain and an extracellular region containing a Cys-rich domain and 2 fibronectin type III repeats. The ephrin receptors are divided into 2 groups based on the similarity of their extracellular domain sequences and their affinities for binding ephrin-A and ephrin-B ligands. Increased expression of this gene is associated with multiple forms of carcinoma. Alternative splicing results in multiple transcript variants.
EPHA8	This gene encodes a member of the ephrin receptor subfamily of the protein-tyrosine kinase family. EPH and EPH-related receptors have been implicated in mediating developmental events, particularly in the nervous system. Receptors in the EPH subfamily typically have a single kinase domain and an extracellular region containing a Cys-rich domain and 2 fibronectin type III repeats. The ephrin receptors are divided into 2 groups based on the similarity of their extracellular domain sequences and their affinities for binding ephrin-A and ephrin-B ligands. The protein encoded by this gene functions as a receptor for ephrin A2, A3 and A5 and plays a role in short-range contact-mediated axonal guidance during development of the mammalian nervous system.
EPHB1	Ephrin receptors and their ligands, the ephrins, mediate numerous developmental processes, particularly in the nervous system. Based on their structures and sequence relationships, ephrins are divided into the ephrin-A (EFNA) class, which are anchored to the membrane by a glycosylphosphatidylinositol linkage, and the ephrin-B (EFNB) class, which are transmembrane proteins. The Eph family of receptors are divided into 2 groups based on the similarity of their extracellular domain sequences and their affinities for binding ephrin-A and ephrin-B ligands. Ephrin receptors make up the largest subgroup of the receptor tyrosine kinase (RTK) family. The protein encoded by this gene is a receptor for ephrin-B family members.
EPHB2	This gene encodes a member of the Eph receptor family of receptor tyrosine kinase transmembrane glycoproteins. These receptors are composed of an N-terminal glycosylated ligand-binding domain, a transmembrane region and an intracellular kinase domain. They bind ligands called ephrins and are involved in diverse cellular processes including motility, division, and differentiation. A distinguishing characteristic of Eph-ephrin signaling is that both receptors and ligands are competent to transduce a signaling cascade, resulting in bidirectional signaling. This protein belongs to a subgroup of the Eph receptors called EphB. Proteins of this subgroup are distinguished from other members of the family by sequence homology and preferential binding affinity for membrane-bound ephrin-B ligands. Allelic variants are associated with prostate and brain cancer susceptibility. Alternative splicing results in multiple transcript variants.
EPHB3	Ephrin receptors and their ligands, the ephrins, mediate numerous developmental processes, particularly in the nervous system. Based on their structures and sequence relationships, ephrins are divided into the ephrin-A (EFNA) class, which are anchored to the membrane by a glycosylphosphatidylinositol linkage, and the ephrin-B (EFNB) class, which are transmembrane proteins. The Eph family of receptors are divided into two groups based on the similarity of their extracellular domain sequences and their affinities for binding ephrin-A and ephrin-B ligands. Ephrin receptors make up the largest subgroup of the receptor tyrosine kinase (RTK) family. This gene encodes a receptor for ephrin-B family members.
EPHB4	Ephrin receptors and their ligands, the ephrins, mediate numerous developmental processes, particularly in the nervous system. Based on their structures and sequence relationships, ephrins are divided into the ephrin-A (EFNA) class, which are anchored to the membrane by a glycosylphosphatidylinositol linkage, and the ephrin-B (EFNB) class, which are transmembrane proteins. The Eph family of receptors are divided into 2 groups based on the similarity of their extracellular domain sequences and their affinities for binding ephrin-A and ephrin-B ligands. Ephrin receptors make up the largest subgroup of the receptor tyrosine kinase (RTK) family. The protein encoded by this gene binds to ephrin-B2 and plays an essential role in vascular development.
EPHB6	This gene encodes a member of a family of transmembrane proteins that function as receptors for ephrin-B family proteins. Unlike other members of this family, the encoded protein does not contain a functional kinase domain. Activity of this protein can influence cell adhesion and migration. Expression of this gene is downregulated during tumor progression, suggesting that the protein may suppress tumor invasion and metastasis. Alternative splicing results in multiple transcript variants.
EPHX1	Epoxide hydrolase is a critical biotransformation enzyme that converts epoxides from the degradation of aromatic compounds to trans-dihydrodiols which can be conjugated and excreted from the body. Epoxide hydrolase functions in both the activation and detoxification of epoxides. Mutations in this gene cause preeclampsia, epoxide hydrolase deficiency or increased epoxide hydrolase activity. Alternatively spliced transcript variants encoding the same protein have been found for this gene.
EPHX2	This gene encodes a member of the epoxide hydrolase family. The protein, found in both the cytosol and peroxisomes, binds to specific epoxides and converts them to the corresponding dihydrodiols. Mutations in this gene have been associated with familial hypercholesterolemia. Alternatively spliced transcript variants have been described.
EPM2A	This gene encodes a dual-specificity phosphatase and may be involved in the regulation of glycogen metabolism. The protein acts on complex carbohydrates to prevent glycogen hyperphosphorylation, thus avoiding the formation of insoluble aggregates. Loss-of-function mutations in this gene have been associated with Lafora disease, a rare, adult-onset recessive neurodegenerative disease, which results in myoclonus epilepsy and usually results in death several years after the onset of symptoms. The disease is characterized by the accumulation of insoluble particles called Lafora bodies, which are derived from glycogen.
EPN1	This gene encodes a member of the epsin protein family. The encoded protein binds clathrin and is involved in the endocytosis of clathrin-coated vesicles. Loss of function of this gene is associated with reduced tumor growth and progression in certain cancer types.
EPO	This gene encodes a secreted, glycosylated cytokine composed of four alpha helical bundles. The encoded protein is mainly synthesized in the kidney, secreted into the blood plasma, and binds to the erythropoietin receptor to promote red blood cell production, or erythropoiesis, in the bone marrow. Expression of this gene is upregulated under hypoxic conditions, in turn leading to increased erythropoiesis and enhanced oxygen-carrying capacity of the blood. Expression of this gene has also been observed in brain and in the eye, and elevated expression levels have been observed in diabetic retinopathy and ocular hypertension. Recombinant forms of the encoded protein exhibit neuroprotective activity against a variety of potential brain injuries, as well as antiapoptotic functions in several tissue types, and have been used in the treatment of anemia and to enhance the efficacy of cancer therapies.
EPOR	This gene encodes the erythropoietin receptor which is a member of the cytokine receptor family. Upon erythropoietin binding, this receptor activates Jak2 tyrosine kinase which activates different intracellular pathways including: Ras/MAP kinase, phosphatidylinositol 3-kinase and STAT transcription factors. The stimulated erythropoietin receptor appears to have a role in erythroid cell survival. Defects in the erythropoietin receptor may produce erythroleukemia and familial erythrocytosis. Dysregulation of this gene may affect the growth of certain tumors. Alternate splicing results in multiple transcript variants.
EPRS	Aminoacyl-tRNA synthetases are a class of enzymes that charge tRNAs with their cognate amino acids. The protein encoded by this gene is a multifunctional aminoacyl-tRNA synthetase that catalyzes the aminoacylation of glutamic acid and proline tRNA species. Alternative splicing has been observed for this gene, but the full-length nature and biological validity of the variant have not been determined.
EPX	This gene is a member of the peroxidase gene family and is expressed in eosinophils. The encoded preproprotein is proteolytically processed into covalently attached heavy and light chains to form the mature enzyme, which functions as an oxidant. The enzyme is released at sites of parasitic infection or allergen stimulation to mediate lysis of protozoa or parasitic worms. The gene is found in a gene cluster with other peroxidase genes on chromosome 17. Mutations in this gene result in eosinophil peroxidase deficiency.
ERAP1	The protein encoded by this gene is an aminopeptidase involved in trimming HLA class I-binding precursors so that they can be presented on MHC class I molecules. The encoded protein acts as a monomer or as a heterodimer with ERAP2. This protein may also be involved in blood pressure regulation by inactivation of angiotensin II. Three transcript variants encoding two different isoforms have been found for this gene.
ERAP2	This gene encodes a zinc metalloaminopeptidase of the M1 protease family that resides in the endoplasmic reticulum and functions in N-terminal trimming antigenic epitopes for presentation by major histocompatibility complex (MHC) class I molecules. Certain mutations in this gene are associated with the inflammatory arthritis syndrome ankylosing spondylitis and pre-eclampsia. This gene is located adjacent to a closely related aminopeptidase gene on chromosome 5.
ERBB2	This gene encodes a member of the epidermal growth factor (EGF) receptor family of receptor tyrosine kinases. This protein has no ligand binding domain of its own and therefore cannot bind growth factors. However, it does bind tightly to other ligand-bound EGF receptor family members to form a heterodimer, stabilizing ligand binding and enhancing kinase-mediated activation of downstream signalling pathways, such as those involving mitogen-activated protein kinase and phosphatidylinositol-3 kinase. Allelic variations at amino acid positions 654 and 655 of isoform a (positions 624 and 625 of isoform b) have been reported, with the most common allele, Ile654/Ile655, shown here. Amplification and/or overexpression of this gene has been reported in numerous cancers, including breast and ovarian tumors. Alternative splicing results in several additional transcript variants, some encoding different isoforms and others that have not been fully characterized.
ERBB3	This gene encodes a member of the epidermal growth factor receptor (EGFR) family of receptor tyrosine kinases. This membrane-bound protein has a neuregulin binding domain but not an active kinase domain. It therefore can bind this ligand but not convey the signal into the cell through protein phosphorylation. However, it does form heterodimers with other EGF receptor family members which do have kinase activity. Heterodimerization leads to the activation of pathways which lead to cell proliferation or differentiation. Amplification of this gene and/or overexpression of its protein have been reported in numerous cancers, including prostate, bladder, and breast tumors. Alternate transcriptional splice variants encoding different isoforms have been characterized. One isoform lacks the intermembrane region and is secreted outside the cell. This form acts to modulate the activity of the membrane-bound form. Additional splice variants have also been reported, but they have not been thoroughly characterized.
ERBB4	This gene is a member of the Tyr protein kinase family and the epidermal growth factor receptor subfamily. It encodes a single-pass type I membrane protein with multiple cysteine rich domains, a transmembrane domain, a tyrosine kinase domain, a phosphotidylinositol-3 kinase binding site and a PDZ domain binding motif. The protein binds to and is activated by neuregulins and other factors and induces a variety of cellular responses including mitogenesis and differentiation. Multiple proteolytic events allow for the release of a cytoplasmic fragment and an extracellular fragment. Mutations in this gene have been associated with cancer. Alternatively spliced variants which encode different protein isoforms have been described; however, not all variants have been fully characterized.
ERCC1	The product of this gene functions in the nucleotide excision repair pathway, and is required for the repair of DNA lesions such as those induced by UV light or formed by electrophilic compounds including cisplatin. The encoded protein forms a heterodimer with the XPF endonuclease (also known as ERCC4), and the heterodimeric endonuclease catalyzes the 5' incision in the process of excising the DNA lesion. The heterodimeric endonuclease is also involved in recombinational DNA repair and in the repair of inter-strand crosslinks. Mutations in this gene result in cerebrooculofacioskeletal syndrome, and polymorphisms that alter expression of this gene may play a role in carcinogenesis. Multiple transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been found for this gene. The last exon of this gene overlaps with the CD3e molecule, epsilon associated protein gene on the opposite strand.
ERCC5	This gene encodes a single-strand specific DNA endonuclease that makes the 3' incision in DNA excision repair following UV-induced damage. The protein may also function in other cellular processes, including RNA polymerase II transcription, and transcription-coupled DNA repair. Mutations in this gene cause xeroderma pigmentosum complementation group G (XP-G), which is also referred to as xeroderma pigmentosum VII (XP7), a skin disorder characterized by hypersensitivity to UV light and increased susceptibility for skin cancer development following UV exposure. Some patients also develop Cockayne syndrome, which is characterized by severe growth defects, cognitive disability, and cachexia. Read-through transcription exists between this gene and the neighboring upstream BIVM (basic, immunoglobulin-like variable motif containing) gene.
ERG	This gene encodes a member of the erythroblast transformation-specific (ETS) family of transcriptions factors. All members of this family are key regulators of embryonic development, cell proliferation, differentiation, angiogenesis, inflammation, and apoptosis. The protein encoded by this gene is mainly expressed in the nucleus. It contains an ETS DNA-binding domain and a PNT (pointed) domain which is implicated in the self-association of chimeric oncoproteins. This protein is required for platelet adhesion to the subendothelium, inducing vascular cell remodeling. It also regulates hematopoesis, and the differentiation and maturation of megakaryocytic cells. This gene is involved in chromosomal translocations, resulting in different fusion gene products, such as TMPSSR2-ERG and NDRG1-ERG in prostate cancer, EWS-ERG in Ewing's sarcoma and FUS-ERG in acute myeloid leukemia. More than two dozens of transcript variants generated from combinatorial usage of three alternative promoters and multiple alternative splicing events have been reported, but the full-length nature of many of these variants has not been determined.
ERN1	This gene encodes the transmembrane protein kinase inositol-requiring enzyme 1. The encoded protein contains two functional catalytic domains, a serine/threonine-protein kinase domain and an endoribonuclease domain. This protein functions as a sensor of unfolded proteins in the endoplasmic reticulum (ER) and triggers an intracellular signaling pathway termed the unfolded protein response (UPR). The UPR is an ER stress response that is conserved from yeast to mammals and activates genes involved in degrading misfolded proteins, regulating protein synthesis and activating molecular chaperones. This protein specifically mediates the splicing and activation of the stress response transcription factor X-box binding protein 1.
ESD	This gene encodes a serine hydrolase that belongs to the esterase D family. The encoded enzyme is active toward numerous substrates including O-acetylated sialic acids, and it may be involved in the recycling of sialic acids. This gene is used as a genetic marker for retinoblastoma and Wilson's disease.
ESR1	This gene encodes an estrogen receptor, a ligand-activated transcription factor composed of several domains important for hormone binding, DNA binding, and activation of transcription. The protein localizes to the nucleus where it may form a homodimer or a heterodimer with estrogen receptor 2. Estrogen and its receptors are essential for sexual development and reproductive function, but also play a role in other tissues such as bone. Estrogen receptors are also involved in pathological processes including breast cancer, endometrial cancer, and osteoporosis. Alternative promoter usage and alternative splicing result in dozens of transcript variants, but the full-length nature of many of these variants has not been determined.
ESR2	This gene encodes a member of the family of estrogen receptors and superfamily of nuclear receptor transcription factors. The gene product contains an N-terminal DNA binding domain and C-terminal ligand binding domain and is localized to the nucleus, cytoplasm, and mitochondria. Upon binding to 17beta-estradiol or related ligands, the encoded protein forms homo- or hetero-dimers that interact with specific DNA sequences to activate transcription. Some isoforms dominantly inhibit the activity of other estrogen receptor family members. Several alternatively spliced transcript variants of this gene have been described, but the full-length nature of some of these variants has not been fully characterized.
ESRRA	The protein encoded by this gene is a nuclear receptor that is most closely related to the estrogen receptor. This protein acts as a site-specific transcription factor and interacts with members of the PGC-1 family of transcription cofactors to regulate the expression of most genes involved in cellular energy production as well as in the process of mitochondrial biogenesis. A processed pseudogene of ESRRA is located on chromosome 13q12.1.
ESRRB	This gene encodes a protein with similarity to the estrogen receptor. Its function is unknown; however, a similar protein in mouse plays an essential role in placental development.
ESRRG	This gene encodes a member of the estrogen receptor-related receptor (ESRR) family, which belongs to the nuclear hormone receptor superfamily. All members of the ESRR family share an almost identical DNA binding domain, which is composed of two C4-type zinc finger motifs. The ESRR members are orphan nuclear receptors; they bind to the estrogen response element and steroidogenic factor 1 response element, and activate genes controlled by both response elements in the absence of any ligands. The ESRR family is closely related to the estrogen receptor (ER) family. They share target genes, co-regulators and promoters, and by targeting the same set of genes, the ESRRs seem to interfere with the ER-mediated estrogen response in various ways. It has been reported that the family member encoded by this gene functions as a transcriptional activator of DNA cytosine-5-methyltransferases 1 (Dnmt1) expression by direct binding to its response elements in the DNMT1 promoters, modulates cell proliferation and estrogen signaling in breast cancer, and negatively regulates bone morphogenetic protein 2-induced osteoblast differentiation and bone formation. Multiple alternatively spliced transcript variants have been identified, which mainly differ at the 5' end and some of which encode protein isoforms differing in the N-terminal region.
ESYT1	Binds glycerophospholipids in a barrel-like domain and may play a role in cellular lipid transport (By similarity). Binds calcium (via the C2 domains) and translocates to sites of contact between the endoplasmic reticulum and the cell membrane in response to increased cytosolic calcium levels. Helps tether the endoplasmic reticulum to the cell membrane and promotes the formation of appositions between the endoplasmic reticulum and the cell membrane.
ETV1	This gene encodes a member of the ETS (E twenty-six) family of transcription factors. The ETS proteins regulate many target genes that modulate biological processes like cell growth, angiogenesis, migration, proliferation and differentiation. All ETS proteins contain an ETS DNA-binding domain that binds to DNA sequences containing the consensus 5'-CGGA
ETV6	This gene encodes an ETS family transcription factor. The product of this gene contains two functional domains: a N-terminal pointed (PNT) domain that is involved in protein-protein interactions with itself and other proteins, and a C-terminal DNA-binding domain. Gene knockout studies in mice suggest that it is required for hematopoiesis and maintenance of the developing vascular network. This gene is known to be involved in a large number of chromosomal rearrangements associated with leukemia and congenital fibrosarcoma.
EYA2	This gene encodes a member of the eyes absent (EYA) family of proteins. The encoded protein may be post-translationally modified and may play a role in eye development. A similar protein in mice can act as a transcriptional activator. Alternative splicing results in multiple transcript variants, but the full-length natures of all of these variants have not yet been determined.
EZH1	EZH1 is a component of a noncanonical Polycomb repressive complex-2 (PRC2) that mediates methylation of histone H3 (see MIM 602812) lys27 (H3K27) and functions in the maintenance of embryonic stem cell pluripotency and plasticity (Shen et al., 2008
EZH2	This gene encodes a member of the Polycomb-group (PcG) family. PcG family members form multimeric protein complexes, which are involved in maintaining the transcriptional repressive state of genes over successive cell generations. This protein associates with the embryonic ectoderm development protein, the VAV1 oncoprotein, and the X-linked nuclear protein. This protein may play a role in the hematopoietic and central nervous systems. Multiple alternatively splcied transcript variants encoding distinct isoforms have been identified for this gene.
EZR	The cytoplasmic peripheral membrane protein encoded by this gene functions as a protein-tyrosine kinase substrate in microvilli. As a member of the ERM protein family, this protein serves as an intermediate between the plasma membrane and the actin cytoskeleton. This protein plays a key role in cell surface structure adhesion, migration and organization, and it has been implicated in various human cancers. A pseudogene located on chromosome 3 has been identified for this gene. Alternatively spliced variants have also been described for this gene.
F10	This gene encodes the vitamin K-dependent coagulation factor X of the blood coagulation cascade. This factor undergoes multiple processing steps before its preproprotein is converted to a mature two-chain form by the excision of the tripeptide RKR. Two chains of the factor are held together by 1 or more disulfide bonds; the light chain contains 2 EGF-like domains, while the heavy chain contains the catalytic domain which is structurally homologous to those of the other hemostatic serine proteases. The mature factor is activated by the cleavage of the activation peptide by factor IXa (in the intrisic pathway), or by factor VIIa (in the extrinsic pathway). The activated factor then converts prothrombin to thrombin in the presence of factor Va, Ca+2, and phospholipid during blood clotting. Mutations of this gene result in factor X deficiency, a hemorrhagic condition of variable severity. Alternative splicing results in multiple transcript variants encoding different isoforms that may undergo similar proteolytic processing to generate mature polypeptides.
F11	This gene encodes coagulation factor XI of the blood coagulation cascade. This protein is present in plasma as a zymogen, which is a unique plasma coagulation enzyme because it exists as a homodimer consisting of two identical polypeptide chains linked by disulfide bonds. During activation of the plasma factor XI, an internal peptide bond is cleaved by factor XIIa (or XII) in each of the two chains, resulting in activated factor XIa, a serine protease composed of two heavy and two light chains held together by disulfide bonds. This activated plasma factor XI triggers the middle phase of the intrisic pathway of blood coagulation by activating factor IX. Defects in this factor lead to Rosenthal syndrome, a blood coagulation abnormality.
F12	This gene encodes coagulation factor XII which circulates in blood as a zymogen. This single chain zymogen is converted to a two-chain serine protease with an heavy chain (alpha-factor XIIa) and a light chain. The heavy chain contains two fibronectin-type domains, two epidermal growth factor (EGF)-like domains, a kringle domain and a proline-rich domain, whereas the light chain contains only a catalytic domain. On activation, further cleavages takes place in the heavy chain, resulting in the production of beta-factor XIIa light chain and the alpha-factor XIIa light chain becomes beta-factor XIIa heavy chain. Prekallikrein is cleaved by factor XII to form kallikrein, which then cleaves factor XII first to alpha-factor XIIa and then to beta-factor XIIa. The active factor XIIa participates in the initiation of blood coagulation, fibrinolysis, and the generation of bradykinin and angiotensin. It activates coagulation factors VII and XI. Defects in this gene do not cause any clinical symptoms and the sole effect is that whole-blood clotting time is prolonged.
F13A1	This gene encodes the coagulation factor XIII A subunit. Coagulation factor XIII is the last zymogen to become activated in the blood coagulation cascade. Plasma factor XIII is a heterotetramer composed of 2 A subunits and 2 B subunits. The A subunits have catalytic function, and the B subunits do not have enzymatic activity and may serve as plasma carrier molecules. Platelet factor XIII is comprised only of 2 A subunits, which are identical to those of plasma origin. Upon cleavage of the activation peptide by thrombin and in the presence of calcium ion, the plasma factor XIII dissociates its B subunits and yields the same active enzyme, factor XIIIa, as platelet factor XIII. This enzyme acts as a transglutaminase to catalyze the formation of gamma-glutamyl-epsilon-lysine crosslinking between fibrin molecules, thus stabilizing the fibrin clot. It also crosslinks alpha-2-plasmin inhibitor, or fibronectin, to the alpha chains of fibrin. Factor XIII deficiency is classified into two categories: type I deficiency, characterized by the lack of both the A and B subunits; and type II deficiency, characterized by the lack of the A subunit alone. These defects can result in a lifelong bleeding tendency, defective wound healing, and habitual abortion.
F13B	This gene encodes coagulation factor XIII B subunit. Coagulation factor XIII is the last zymogen to become activated in the blood coagulation cascade. Plasma factor XIII is a heterotetramer composed of 2 A subunits and 2 B subunits. The A subunits have catalytic function, and the B subunits do not have enzymatic activity and may serve as a plasma carrier molecules. Platelet factor XIII is comprised only of 2 A subunits, which are identical to those of plasma origin. Upon activation by the cleavage of the activation peptide by thrombin and in the presence of calcium ion, the plasma factor XIII dissociates its B subunits and yields the same active enzyme, factor XIIIa, as platelet factor XIII. This enzyme acts as a transglutaminase to catalyze the formation of gamma-glutamyl-epsilon-lysine crosslinking between fibrin molecules, thus stabilizing the fibrin clot. Factor XIII deficiency is classified into two categories: type I deficiency, characterized by the lack of both the A and B subunits; and type II deficiency, characterized by the lack of the A subunit alone.  These defects can result in a lifelong bleeding tendency, defective wound healing, and habitual abortion.
F2	Coagulation factor II is proteolytically cleaved to form thrombin in the first step of the coagulation cascade which ultimately results in the stemming of blood loss. F2 also plays a role in maintaining vascular integrity during development and postnatal life. Peptides derived from the C-terminus of this protein have antimicrobial activity against E. coli and P. aeruginosa. Mutations in F2 lead to various forms of thrombosis and dysprothrombinemia. Alternative splicing results in multiple transcript variants.
F2R	Coagulation factor II receptor is a 7-transmembrane receptor involved in the regulation of thrombotic response. Proteolytic cleavage leads to the activation of the receptor. F2R is a G-protein coupled receptor family member. Alternative splicing results in multiple transcript variants.
F2RL1	This gene encodes a member of the G-protein coupled receptor 1 family of proteins. The encoded cell surface receptor is activated through proteolytic cleavage of its extracellular amino terminus, resulting in a new amino terminus that acts as a tethered ligand that binds to an extracellular loop domain. Activation of the receptor has been shown to stimulate vascular smooth muscle relaxation, dilate blood vessels, increase blood flow, and lower blood pressure. This protein is also important in the inflammatory response, as well as innate and adaptive immunity.
F2RL2	This gene encodes a member of the protease-activated receptor (PAR) family which is a subfamily of the seven transmembrane G protein-coupled cell surface receptor family. The encoded protein acts as a cofactor in the thrombin-mediated cleavage and activation of the protease-activated receptor family member PAR4. The encoded protein plays an essential role in hemostasis and thrombosis. Alternate splicing results in multiple transcript variants that encode different isoforms.
F2RL3	This gene encodes a member of the protease-activated receptor subfamily, part of the G-protein coupled receptor 1 family of proteins. The encoded receptor is proteolytically processed to reveal an extracellular N-terminal tethered ligand that binds to and activates the receptor. This receptor plays a role in blood coagulation, inflammation and response to pain. Hypomethylation at this gene may be associated with lung cancer in human patients.
F3	This gene encodes coagulation factor III which is a cell surface glycoprotein. This factor enables cells to initiate the blood coagulation cascades, and it functions as the high-affinity receptor for the coagulation factor VII. The resulting complex provides a catalytic event that is responsible for initiation of the coagulation protease cascades by specific limited proteolysis. Unlike the other cofactors of these protease cascades, which circulate as nonfunctional precursors, this factor is a potent initiator that is fully functional when expressed on cell surfaces. There are 3 distinct domains of this factor: extracellular, transmembrane, and cytoplasmic. This protein is the only one in the coagulation pathway for which a congenital deficiency has not been described. Alternate splicing results in multiple transcript variants.
F5	This gene encodes an essential cofactor of the blood coagulation cascade. This factor circulates in plasma, and is converted to the active form by the release of the activation peptide by thrombin during coagulation. This generates a heavy chain and a light chain which are held together by calcium ions. The activated protein is a cofactor that participates with activated coagulation factor X to activate prothrombin to thrombin. Defects in this gene result in either an autosomal recessive hemorrhagic diathesis or an autosomal dominant form of thrombophilia, which is known as activated protein C resistance.
F7	This gene encodes coagulation factor VII which is a vitamin K-dependent factor essential for hemostasis. This factor circulates in the blood in a zymogen form, and is converted to an active form by either factor IXa, factor Xa, factor XIIa, or thrombin by minor proteolysis. Upon activation of the factor VII, a heavy chain containing a catalytic domain and a light chain containing 2 EGF-like domains are generated, and two chains are held together by a disulfide bond. In the presence of factor III and calcium ions, the activated factor then further activates the coagulation cascade by converting factor IX to factor IXa and/or factor X to factor Xa. Defects in this gene can cause coagulopathy. Alternative splicing results in multiple transcript variants encoding different isoforms that may undergo similar proteolytic processing to generate mature polypeptides.
F8	This gene encodes coagulation factor VIII, which participates in the intrinsic pathway of blood coagulation; factor VIII is a cofactor for factor IXa which, in the presence of Ca+2 and phospholipids, converts factor X to the activated form Xa.  This gene produces two alternatively spliced transcripts. Transcript variant 1 encodes a large glycoprotein, isoform a, which circulates in plasma and associates with von Willebrand factor in a noncovalent complex. This protein undergoes multiple cleavage events. Transcript variant 2 encodes a putative small protein, isoform b, which consists primarily of the phospholipid binding domain of factor VIIIc. This binding domain is essential for coagulant activity. Defects in this gene results in hemophilia A, a common recessive X-linked coagulation disorder.
F9	This gene encodes vitamin K-dependent coagulation factor IX that circulates in the blood as an inactive zymogen. This factor is converted to an active form by factor XIa, which excises the activation peptide and thus generates a heavy chain and a light chain held together by one or more disulfide bonds. The role of this activated factor IX in the blood coagulation cascade is to activate factor X to its active form through interactions with Ca+2 ions, membrane phospholipids, and factor VIII. Alterations of this gene, including point mutations, insertions and deletions, cause factor IX deficiency, which is a recessive X-linked disorder, also called hemophilia B or Christmas disease. Alternative splicing results in multiple transcript variants encoding different isoforms that may undergo similar proteolytic processing.
FAAH	This gene encodes a protein that is responsible for the hydrolysis of a number of primary and secondary fatty acid amides, including the neuromodulatory compounds anandamide and oleamide.
FAAH2	This gene encodes a fatty acid amide hydrolase that shares a conserved protein motif with the amidase signature family of enzymes. The encoded enzyme is able to catalyze the hydrolysis of a broad range of bioactive lipids, including those from the three main classes of fatty acid amides; N-acylethanolamines, fatty acid primary amides and N-acyl amino acids. This enzyme has a preference for monounsaturated acyl chains as a substrate. Alternate splicing results in multiple transcript variants encoding distinct isoforms.
FABP1	This gene encodes the fatty acid binding protein found in liver. Fatty acid binding proteins are a family of small, highly conserved, cytoplasmic proteins that bind long-chain fatty acids and other hydrophobic ligands. This protein and FABP6 (the ileal fatty acid binding protein) are also able to bind bile acids. It is thought that FABPs roles include fatty acid uptake, transport, and metabolism.
FABP2	The protein encoded by this gene is an intracellular fatty acid-binding protein that participates in the uptake, intracellular metabolism, and transport of long-chain fatty acids. The encoded protein is also involved in the modulation of cell growth and proliferation. This protein binds saturated long-chain fatty acids with high affinity, and may act as a lipid sensor to maintain energy homeostasis.
FABP3	The intracellular fatty acid-binding proteins (FABPs) belongs to a multigene family. FABPs are divided into at least three distinct types, namely the hepatic-, intestinal- and cardiac-type. They form 14-15 kDa proteins and are thought to participate in the uptake, intracellular metabolism and/or transport of long-chain fatty acids. They may also be responsible in the modulation of cell growth and proliferation. Fatty acid-binding protein 3 gene contains four exons and its function is to arrest growth of mammary epithelial cells. This gene is a candidate tumor suppressor gene for human breast cancer. Alternative splicing results in multiple transcript variants.
FABP4	FABP4 encodes the fatty acid binding protein found in adipocytes.  Fatty acid binding proteins are a family of small, highly conserved, cytoplasmic proteins that bind long-chain fatty acids and other hydrophobic ligands. It is thought that FABPs roles include fatty acid uptake, transport, and metabolism.
FABP5	This gene encodes the fatty acid binding protein found in epidermal cells, and was first identified as being upregulated in psoriasis tissue. Fatty acid binding proteins are a family of small, highly conserved, cytoplasmic proteins that bind long-chain fatty acids and other hydrophobic ligands. FABPs may play roles in fatty acid uptake, transport, and metabolism. Polymorphisms in this gene are associated with type 2 diabetes. The human genome contains many pseudogenes similar to this locus.
FABP7	The gene encodes a small, highly conserved cytoplasmic protein that bind long-chain fatty acids and other hydrophobic ligands. The encoded protein is important in the establishment of the radial glial fiber in the developing brain. Alternative splicing and promoter usage results in multiple transcript variants encoding different isoforms. Pseudogenes of this gene are found on multiple chromosomes.
FABP9	This gene is a Protein Coding gene. Among its related pathways are Triglyceride metabolism and PPAR signaling pathway. Predicted to enable lipid binding activity. Predicted to be involved in acrosome assembly. Predicted to be located in cytosol.
FADS1	The protein encoded by this gene is a member of the fatty acid desaturase (FADS) gene family. Desaturase enzymes regulate unsaturation of fatty acids through the introduction of double bonds between defined carbons of the fatty acyl chain. FADS family members are considered fusion products composed of an N-terminal cytochrome b5-like domain and a C-terminal multiple membrane-spanning desaturase portion, both of which are characterized by conserved histidine motifs. This gene is clustered with family members FADS1 and FADS2 at 11q12-q13.1; this cluster is thought to have arisen evolutionarily from gene duplication based on its similar exon/intron organization.
FADS2	The protein encoded by this gene is a member of the fatty acid desaturase (FADS) gene family. Desaturase enzymes regulate unsaturation of fatty acids through the introduction of double bonds between defined carbons of the fatty acyl chain. FADS family members are considered fusion products composed of an N-terminal cytochrome b5-like domain and a C-terminal multiple membrane-spanning desaturase portion, both of which are characterized by conserved histidine motifs. This gene is clustered with family members at 11q12-q13.1; this cluster is thought to have arisen evolutionarily from gene duplication based on its similar exon/intron organization. Alternative splicing results in multiple transcript variants encoding different isoforms.
FAF1	Interaction of Fas ligand (TNFSF6) with the FAS antigen (TNFRSF6) mediates programmed cell death, also called apoptosis, in a number of organ systems. The protein encoded by this gene binds to FAS antigen and can initiate apoptosis or enhance apoptosis initiated through FAS antigen. Initiation of apoptosis by the protein encoded by this gene requires a ubiquitin-like domain but not the FAS-binding domain.
FANCD2	The Fanconi anemia complementation group (FANC) currently includes FANCA, FANCB, FANCC, FANCD1 (also called BRCA2), FANCD2, FANCE, FANCF, FANCG, FANCI, FANCJ (also called BRIP1), FANCL, FANCM and FANCN (also called PALB2). The previously defined group FANCH is the same as FANCA. Fanconi anemia is a genetically heterogeneous recessive disorder characterized by cytogenetic instability, hypersensitivity to DNA crosslinking agents, increased chromosomal breakage, and defective DNA repair. The members of the Fanconi anemia complementation group do not share sequence similarity; they are related by their assembly into a common nuclear protein complex. This gene encodes the protein for complementation group D2. This protein is monoubiquinated in response to DNA damage, resulting in its localization to nuclear foci with other proteins (BRCA1 AND BRCA2) involved in homology-directed DNA repair. Alternative splicing results in multiple transcript variants.
FANCF	The Fanconi anemia complementation group (FANC) currently includes FANCA, FANCB, FANCC, FANCD1 (also called BRCA2), FANCD2, FANCE, FANCF, FANCG, FANCI, FANCJ (also called BRIP1), FANCL, FANCM and FANCN (also called PALB2). The previously defined group FANCH is the same as FANCA. Fanconi anemia is a genetically heterogeneous recessive disorder characterized by cytogenetic instability, hypersensitivity to DNA crosslinking agents, increased chromosomal breakage, and defective DNA repair. The members of the Fanconi anemia complementation group do not share sequence similarity; they are related by their assembly into a common nuclear protein complex. This gene encodes the protein for complementation group F.
FAP	The protein encoded by this gene is a homodimeric integral membrane gelatinase belonging to the serine protease family. It is selectively expressed in reactive stromal fibroblasts of epithelial cancers, granulation tissue of healing wounds, and malignant cells of bone and soft tissue sarcomas. This protein is thought to be involved in the control of fibroblast growth or epithelial-mesenchymal interactions during development, tissue repair, and epithelial carcinogenesis. Alternatively spliced transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been found for this gene.
FARS2	This gene encodes a protein that transfers phenylalanine to its cognate tRNA. This protein localizes to the mitochondrion and plays a role in mitochondrial protein translation. Mutations in this gene can cause combined oxidative phosphorylation deficiency 14 (Alpers encephalopathy). Alternative splicing results in multiple transcript variants.
FASLG	This gene is a member of the tumor necrosis factor superfamily. The primary function of the encoded transmembrane protein is the induction of apoptosis triggered by binding to FAS. The FAS/FASLG signaling pathway is essential for immune system regulation, including activation-induced cell death (AICD) of T cells and cytotoxic T lymphocyte induced cell death. It has also been implicated in the progression of several cancers. Defects in this gene may be related to some cases of systemic lupus erythematosus (SLE). Alternatively spliced transcript variants have been described.
FASN	The enzyme encoded by this gene is a multifunctional protein. Its main function is to catalyze the synthesis of palmitate from acetyl-CoA and malonyl-CoA, in the presence of NADPH, into long-chain saturated fatty acids. In some cancer cell lines, this protein has been found to be fused with estrogen receptor-alpha (ER-alpha), in which the N-terminus of FAS is fused in-frame with the C-terminus of ER-alpha.
FBP1	Fructose-1,6-bisphosphatase 1, a gluconeogenesis regulatory enzyme, catalyzes the hydrolysis of fructose 1,6-bisphosphate to fructose 6-phosphate and inorganic phosphate. Fructose-1,6-diphosphatase deficiency is associated with hypoglycemia and metabolic acidosis.
FCER1A	The immunoglobulin epsilon receptor (IgE receptor) is the initiator of the allergic response. When two or more high-affinity IgE receptors are brought together by allergen-bound IgE molecules, mediators such as histamine that are responsible for allergy symptoms are released. This receptor is comprised of an alpha subunit, a beta subunit, and two gamma subunits. The protein encoded by this gene represents the alpha subunit.
FCER2	The protein encoded by this gene is a B-cell specific antigen, and a low-affinity receptor for IgE. It has essential roles in B cell growth and differentiation, and the regulation of IgE production. This protein also exists as a soluble secreted form, then functioning as a potent mitogenic growth factor. Alternatively spliced transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been described for this gene.
FCGR1A	This gene encodes a protein that plays an important role in the immune response. This protein is a high-affinity Fc-gamma receptor. The gene is one of three related gene family members located on chromosome 1.
FCGR2A	This gene encodes one member of a family of immunoglobulin Fc receptor genes found on the surface of many immune response cells. The protein encoded by this gene is a cell surface receptor found on phagocytic cells such as macrophages and neutrophils, and is involved in the process of phagocytosis and clearing of immune complexes. Alternative splicing results in multiple transcript variants.
FCGR3A	This gene encodes a receptor for the Fc portion of immunoglobulin G, and it is involved in the removal of antigen-antibody complexes from the circulation, as well as other other antibody-dependent responses. This gene (FCGR3A) is highly similar to another nearby gene (FCGR3B) located on chromosome 1. The receptor encoded by this gene is expressed on natural killer (NK) cells as an integral membrane glycoprotein anchored through a transmembrane peptide, whereas FCGR3B is expressed on polymorphonuclear neutrophils (PMN) where the receptor is anchored through a phosphatidylinositol (PI) linkage. Mutations in this gene have been linked to susceptibility to recurrent viral infections, susceptibility to systemic lupus erythematosus, and alloimmune neonatal neutropenia. Alternatively spliced transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been found for this gene.
FCGRT	This gene encodes a receptor that binds the Fc region of monomeric immunoglobulin G. The encoded protein transfers immunoglobulin G antibodies from mother to fetus across the placenta. This protein also binds immunoglobulin G to protect the antibody from degradation. Alternative splicing results in multiple transcript variants.
FDFT1	This gene encodes a membrane-associated enzyme located at a branch point in the mevalonate pathway. The encoded protein is the first specific enzyme in cholesterol biosynthesis, catalyzing the dimerization of two molecules of farnesyl diphosphate in a two-step reaction to form squalene.
FDPS	This gene encodes an enzyme that catalyzes the production of geranyl pyrophosphate and farnesyl pyrophosphate from isopentenyl pyrophosphate and dimethylallyl pyrophosphate. The resulting product, farnesyl pyrophosphate, is a key intermediate in cholesterol and sterol biosynthesis, a substrate for protein farnesylation and geranylgeranylation, and a ligand or agonist for certain hormone receptors and growth receptors. Drugs that inhibit this enzyme prevent the post-translational modifications of small GTPases and have been used to treat diseases related to bone resorption. Multiple pseudogenes have been found on chromosomes 1, 7, 14, 15, 21 and X. Multiple transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been found for this gene.
FECH	The protein encoded by this gene is localized to the mitochondrion, where it catalyzes the insertion of the ferrous form of iron into protoporphyrin IX in the heme synthesis pathway. Mutations in this gene are associated with erythropoietic protoporphyria. Two transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been found for this gene. A pseudogene of this gene is found on chromosome 3.
FEN1	The protein encoded by this gene removes 5' overhanging flaps in DNA repair and processes the 5' ends of Okazaki fragments in lagging strand DNA synthesis. Direct physical interaction between this protein and AP endonuclease 1 during long-patch base excision repair provides coordinated loading of the proteins onto the substrate, thus passing the substrate from one enzyme to another. The protein is a member of the XPG/RAD2 endonuclease family and is one of ten proteins essential for cell-free DNA replication. DNA secondary structure can inhibit flap processing at certain trinucleotide repeats in a length-dependent manner by concealing the 5' end of the flap that is necessary for both binding and cleavage by the protein encoded by this gene. Therefore, secondary structure can deter the protective function of this protein, leading to site-specific trinucleotide expansions.
FER	The protein encoded by this gene is a member of the FPS/FES family of non-transmembrane receptor tyrosine kinases. It regulates cell-cell adhesion and mediates signaling from the cell surface to the cytoskeleton via growth factor receptors. Alternative splicing results in multiple transcript variants. A related pseudogene has been identified on chromosome X.
FES	This gene encodes the human cellular counterpart of a feline sarcoma retrovirus protein with transforming capabilities. The gene product has tyrosine-specific protein kinase activity and that activity is required for maintenance of cellular transformation. Its chromosomal location has linked it to a specific translocation event identified in patients with acute promyelocytic leukemia but it is also involved in normal hematopoiesis as well as growth factor and cytokine receptor signaling. Alternative splicing results in multiple variants encoding different isoforms.
FFAR1	This gene encodes a member of the GP40 family of G protein-coupled receptors that are clustered together on chromosome 19. The encoded protein is a receptor for medium and long chain free fatty acids and may be involved in the metabolic regulation of insulin secretion. Polymorphisms in this gene may be associated with type 2 diabetes.
FFAR2	This gene encodes a member of the GP40 family of G protein-coupled receptors that are clustered together on chromosome 19. The encoded protein is a receptor for short chain free fatty acids and may be involved in the inflammatory response and in regulating lipid plasma levels.
FFAR3	G protein-coupled receptor that is activated by a major product of dietary fiber digestion, the short chain fatty acids (SCFAs), and that plays a role in the regulation of whole-body energy homeostasis and in intestinal immunity. In omnivorous mammals, the short chain fatty acids acetate, propionate and butyrate are produced primarily by the gut microbiome that metabolizes dietary fibers. SCFAs serve as a source of energy but also act as signaling molecules. That G protein-coupled receptor is probably coupled to the pertussis toxin-sensitive, G(i/o)-alpha family of G proteins. Its activation results in the formation of inositol 1,4,5-trisphosphate, the mobilization of intracellular calcium, the phosphorylation of the MAPK3/ERK1 and MAPK1/ERK2 kinases and the inhibition of intracellular cAMP accumulation .
FFAR4	This gene encodes a G protein-coupled receptor (GPR) which belongs to the rhodopsin family of GPRs. The encoded protein functions as a receptor for free fatty acids, including omega-3, and participates in suppressing anti-inflammatory responses and insulin sensitizing. Multiple transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been found for this gene.
FGA	This gene encodes the alpha subunit of the coagulation factor fibrinogen, which is a component of the blood clot. Following vascular injury, the encoded preproprotein is proteolytically processed by thrombin during the conversion of fibrinogen to fibrin. Mutations in this gene lead to several disorders, including dysfibrinogenemia, hypofibrinogenemia, afibrinogenemia and renal amyloidosis. Alternative splicing results in multiple transcript variants, at least one of which encodes an isoform that undergoes proteolytic processing.
FGB	The protein encoded by this gene is the beta component of fibrinogen, a blood-borne glycoprotein comprised of three pairs of nonidentical polypeptide chains. Following vascular injury, fibrinogen is cleaved by thrombin to form fibrin which is the most abundant component of blood clots. In addition, various cleavage products of fibrinogen and fibrin regulate cell adhesion and spreading, display vasoconstrictor and chemotactic activities, and are mitogens for several cell types. Mutations in this gene lead to several disorders, including afibrinogenemia, dysfibrinogenemia, hypodysfibrinogenemia and thrombotic tendency. Alternatively spliced transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been found for this gene.
FGD1	This gene encodes a protein that contains Dbl (DH) and pleckstrin (PH) homology domains and is similar to the Rho family of small GTP-binding proteins. The encoded protein specifically binds to the Rho family GTPase Cdc42Hs and can stimulate the GDP-GTP exchange of the isoprenylated form of Cdc42Hs. It also stimulates the mitogen activated protein kinase cascade leading to c-Jun kinase SAPK/JNK1 activation. Defects in this gene are the cause of the faciogenital dysplasia in Aarskog-Scott syndrome and a syndromatic form of X-linked cognitive disability.
FGF1	The protein encoded by this gene is a member of the fibroblast growth factor (FGF) family. FGF family members possess broad mitogenic and cell survival activities, and are involved in a variety of biological processes, including embryonic development, cell growth, morphogenesis, tissue repair, tumor growth and invasion. This protein functions as a modifier of endothelial cell migration and proliferation, as well as an angiogenic factor. It acts as a mitogen for a variety of mesoderm- and neuroectoderm-derived cells in vitro, thus is thought to be involved in organogenesis. Multiple alternatively spliced variants encoding different isoforms have been described.
FGF2	The protein encoded by this gene is a member of the fibroblast growth factor (FGF) family. FGF family members bind heparin and possess broad mitogenic and angiogenic activities. This protein has been implicated in diverse biological processes, such as limb and nervous system development, wound healing, and tumor growth. The mRNA for this gene contains multiple polyadenylation sites, and is alternatively translated from non-AUG (CUG) and AUG initiation codons, resulting in five different isoforms with distinct properties. The CUG-initiated isoforms are localized in the nucleus and are responsible for the intracrine effect, whereas, the AUG-initiated form is mostly cytosolic and is responsible for the paracrine and autocrine effects of this FGF.
FGF22	The protein encoded by this gene is a member of the fibroblast growth factor (FGF) family. FGF family members possess broad mitogenic and cell survival activities and are involved in a variety of biological processes including embryonic development, cell growth, morphogenesis, tissue repair, tumor growth and invasion. The mouse homolog of this gene was found to be preferentially expressed in the inner root sheath of the hair follicle, which suggested a role in hair development. Alternative splicing results in multiple transcript variants.
FGF23	This gene encodes a member of the fibroblast growth factor family of proteins, which possess broad mitogenic and cell survival activities and are involved in a variety of biological processes. The product of this gene regulates phosphate homeostasis and transport in the kidney. The full-length, functional protein may be deactivated via cleavage into N-terminal and C-terminal chains. Mutation of this cleavage site causes autosomal dominant hypophosphatemic rickets (ADHR). Mutations in this gene are also associated with hyperphosphatemic familial tumoral calcinosis (HFTC).
FGF4	The protein encoded by this gene is a member of the fibroblast growth factor (FGF) family. FGF family members possess broad mitogenic and cell survival activities and are involved in a variety of biological processes including embryonic development, cell growth, morphogenesis, tissue repair, tumor growth and invasion. This gene was identified by its oncogenic transforming activity. This gene and FGF3, another oncogenic growth factor, are located closely on chromosome 11. Co-amplification of both genes was found in various kinds of human tumors. Studies on the mouse homolog suggested a function in bone morphogenesis and limb development through the sonic hedgehog (SHH) signaling pathway.
FGF7	The protein encoded by this gene is a member of the fibroblast growth factor (FGF) family. FGF family members possess broad mitogenic and cell survival activities, and are involved in a variety of biological processes, including embryonic development, cell growth, morphogenesis, tissue repair, tumor growth and invasion. This protein is a potent epithelial cell-specific growth factor, whose mitogenic activity is predominantly exhibited in keratinocytes but not in fibroblasts and endothelial cells. Studies of mouse and rat homologs of this gene implicated roles in morphogenesis of epithelium, reepithelialization of wounds, hair development and early lung organogenesis.
FGFR1	The protein encoded by this gene is a member of the fibroblast growth factor receptor (FGFR) family, where amino acid sequence is highly conserved between members and throughout evolution. FGFR family members differ from one another in their ligand affinities and tissue distribution. A full-length representative protein consists of an extracellular region, composed of three immunoglobulin-like domains, a single hydrophobic membrane-spanning segment and a cytoplasmic tyrosine kinase domain. The extracellular portion of the protein interacts with fibroblast growth factors, setting in motion a cascade of downstream signals, ultimately influencing mitogenesis and differentiation. This particular family member binds both acidic and basic fibroblast growth factors and is involved in limb induction. Mutations in this gene have been associated with Pfeiffer syndrome, Jackson-Weiss syndrome, Antley-Bixler syndrome, osteoglophonic dysplasia, and autosomal dominant Kallmann syndrome 2. Chromosomal aberrations involving this gene are associated with stem cell myeloproliferative disorder and stem cell leukemia lymphoma syndrome. Alternatively spliced variants which encode different protein isoforms have been described; however, not all variants have been fully characterized.
FGFR2	The protein encoded by this gene is a member of the fibroblast growth factor receptor family, where amino acid sequence is highly conserved between members and throughout evolution. FGFR family members differ from one another in their ligand affinities and tissue distribution. A full-length representative protein consists of an extracellular region, composed of three immunoglobulin-like domains, a single hydrophobic membrane-spanning segment and a cytoplasmic tyrosine kinase domain. The extracellular portion of the protein interacts with fibroblast growth factors, setting in motion a cascade of downstream signals, ultimately influencing mitogenesis and differentiation. This particular family member is a high-affinity receptor for acidic, basic and/or keratinocyte growth factor, depending on the isoform. Mutations in this gene are associated with Crouzon syndrome, Pfeiffer syndrome, Craniosynostosis, Apert syndrome, Jackson-Weiss syndrome, Beare-Stevenson cutis gyrata syndrome, Saethre-Chotzen syndrome, and syndromic craniosynostosis. Multiple alternatively spliced transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been noted for this gene.
FGFR3	This gene encodes a member of the fibroblast growth factor receptor (FGFR) family, with its amino acid sequence being highly conserved between members and among divergent species. FGFR family members differ from one another in their ligand affinities and tissue distribution. A full-length representative protein would consist of an extracellular region, composed of three immunoglobulin-like domains, a single hydrophobic membrane-spanning segment and a cytoplasmic tyrosine kinase domain. The extracellular portion of the protein interacts with fibroblast growth factors, setting in motion a cascade of downstream signals, ultimately influencing mitogenesis and differentiation. This particular family member binds acidic and basic fibroblast growth hormone and plays a role in bone development and maintenance. Mutations in this gene lead to craniosynostosis and multiple types of skeletal dysplasia.
FGFR4	The protein encoded by this gene is a tyrosine kinase and cell surface receptor for fibroblast growth factors. The encoded protein is involved in the regulation of several pathways, including cell proliferation, cell differentiation, cell migration, lipid metabolism, bile acid biosynthesis, vitamin D metabolism, glucose uptake, and phosphate homeostasis. This protein consists of an extracellular region, composed of three immunoglobulin-like domains, a single hydrophobic membrane-spanning segment, and a cytoplasmic tyrosine kinase domain. The extracellular portion interacts with fibroblast growth factors, setting in motion a cascade of downstream signals, ultimately influencing mitogenesis and differentiation.
FGR	This gene is a member of the Src family of protein tyrosine kinases (PTKs). The encoded protein contains N-terminal sites for myristylation and palmitylation, a PTK domain, and SH2 and SH3 domains which are involved in mediating protein-protein interactions with phosphotyrosine-containing and proline-rich motifs, respectively. The protein localizes to plasma membrane ruffles, and functions as a negative regulator of cell migration and adhesion triggered by the beta-2 integrin signal transduction pathway. Infection with Epstein-Barr virus results in the overexpression of this gene. Multiple alternatively spliced variants, encoding the same protein, have been identified.
FHIT	The protein encoded by this gene is a P1-P3-bis(5'-adenosyl) triphosphate hydrolase involved in purine metabolism. This gene encompasses the common fragile site FRA3B on chromosome 3, where carcinogen-induced damage can lead to translocations and aberrant transcripts. In fact, aberrant transcripts from this gene have been found in about half of all esophageal, stomach, and colon carcinomas. The encoded protein is also a tumor suppressor, as loss of its activity results in replication stress and DNA damage.
FKBP1A	The protein encoded by this gene is a member of the immunophilin protein family, which play a role in immunoregulation and basic cellular processes involving protein folding and trafficking. The protein is a cis-trans prolyl isomerase that binds the immunosuppressants FK506 and rapamycin. It interacts with several intracellular signal transduction proteins including type I TGF-beta receptor. It also interacts with multiple intracellular calcium release channels, and coordinates multi-protein complex formation of the tetrameric skeletal muscle ryanodine receptor. In mouse, deletion of this homologous gene causes congenital heart disorder known as noncompaction of left ventricular myocardium. Multiple alternatively spliced variants, encoding the same protein, have been identified. The human genome contains five pseudogenes related to this gene, at least one of which is transcribed.
FKBP1B	The protein encoded by this gene is a member of the immunophilin protein family, which play a role in immunoregulation and basic cellular processes involving protein folding and trafficking. This encoded protein is a cis-trans prolyl isomerase that binds the immunosuppressants FK506 and rapamycin. It is highly similar to the FK506-binding protein 1A. Its physiological role is thought to be in excitation-contraction coupling in cardiac muscle. There are two alternatively spliced transcript variants of this gene encoding different isoforms.
FKBP3	The protein encoded by this gene is a member of the immunophilin protein family, which play a role in immunoregulation and basic cellular processes involving protein folding and trafficking. This encoded protein is a cis-trans prolyl isomerase that binds the immunosuppressants FK506 and rapamycin, as well as histone deacetylases, the transcription factor YY1, casein kinase II, and nucleolin. It has a higher affinity for rapamycin than for FK506 and thus may be an important target molecule for immunosuppression by rapamycin.
FKBP4	The protein encoded by this gene is a member of the immunophilin protein family, which play a role in immunoregulation and basic cellular processes involving protein folding and trafficking. This encoded protein is a cis-trans prolyl isomerase that binds to the immunosuppressants FK506 and rapamycin. It has high structural and functional similarity to FK506-binding protein 1A (FKBP1A), but unlike FKBP1A, this protein does not have immunosuppressant activity when complexed with FK506. It interacts with interferon regulatory factor-4 and plays an important role in immunoregulatory gene expression in B and T lymphocytes. This encoded protein is known to associate with phytanoyl-CoA alpha-hydroxylase. It can also associate with two heat shock proteins (hsp90 and hsp70) and thus may play a role in the intracellular trafficking of hetero-oligomeric forms of the steroid hormone receptors. This protein correlates strongly with adeno-associated virus type 2 vectors (AAV) resulting in a significant increase in AAV-mediated transgene expression in human cell lines. Thus this encoded protein is thought to have important implications for the optimal use of AAV vectors in human gene therapy. The human genome contains several non-transcribed pseudogenes similar to this gene.
FKBP5	The protein encoded by this gene is a member of the immunophilin protein family, which play a role in immunoregulation and basic cellular processes involving protein folding and trafficking. This encoded protein is a cis-trans prolyl isomerase that binds to the immunosuppressants FK506 and rapamycin. It is thought to mediate calcineurin inhibition. It also interacts functionally with mature hetero-oligomeric progesterone receptor complexes along with the 90 kDa heat shock protein and P23 protein. This gene has been found to have multiple polyadenylation sites. Alternative splicing results in multiple transcript variants.
FLAD1	This gene encodes the enzyme that catalyzes adenylation of flavin mononucleotide (FMN) to form flavin adenine dinucleotide (FAD) coenzyme. Alternatively spliced transcript variants encoding distinct isoforms have been observed.
FLI1	This gene encodes a transcription factor containing an ETS DNA-binding domain. The gene can undergo a t(11;22)(q24;q12) translocation with the Ewing sarcoma gene on chromosome 22, which results in a fusion gene that is present in the majority of Ewing sarcoma cases. An acute lymphoblastic leukemia-associated t(4;11)(q21;q23) translocation involving this gene has also been identified. Alternative splicing results in multiple transcript variants.
FLT1	This gene encodes a member of the vascular endothelial growth factor receptor (VEGFR) family. VEGFR family members are receptor tyrosine kinases (RTKs) which contain an extracellular ligand-binding region with seven immunoglobulin (Ig)-like domains, a transmembrane segment, and a tyrosine kinase (TK) domain within the cytoplasmic domain. This protein binds to VEGFR-A, VEGFR-B and placental growth factor and plays an important role in angiogenesis and vasculogenesis. Expression of this receptor is found in vascular endothelial cells, placental trophoblast cells and peripheral blood monocytes. Multiple transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been found for this gene. Isoforms include a full-length transmembrane receptor isoform and shortened, soluble isoforms. The soluble isoforms are associated with the onset of pre-eclampsia.
FLT3	This gene encodes a class III receptor tyrosine kinase that regulates hematopoiesis. This receptor is activated by binding of the fms-related tyrosine kinase 3 ligand to the extracellular domain, which induces homodimer formation in the plasma membrane leading to autophosphorylation of the receptor. The activated receptor kinase subsequently phosphorylates and activates multiple cytoplasmic effector molecules in pathways involved in apoptosis, proliferation, and differentiation of hematopoietic cells in bone marrow. Mutations that result in the constitutive activation of this receptor result in acute myeloid leukemia and acute lymphoblastic leukemia.
FLT4	This gene encodes a tyrosine kinase receptor for vascular endothelial growth factors C and D. The protein is thought to be involved in lymphangiogenesis and maintenance of the lymphatic endothelium. Mutations in this gene cause hereditary lymphedema type IA.
FMO1	Metabolic N-oxidation of the diet-derived amino-trimethylamine (TMA) is mediated by flavin-containing monooxygenase and is subject to an inherited FMO3 polymorphism in man resulting in a small subpopulation with reduced TMA N-oxidation capacity resulting in fish odor syndrome Trimethylaminuria. Three forms of the enzyme, FMO1 found in fetal liver, FMO2 found in adult liver, and FMO3 are encoded by genes clustered in the 1q23-q25 region. Flavin-containing monooxygenases are NADPH-dependent flavoenzymes that catalyzes the oxidation of soft nucleophilic heteroatom centers in drugs, pesticides, and xenobiotics. Several transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been found for this gene.
FMO3	Flavin-containing monooxygenases (FMO) are an important class of drug-metabolizing enzymes that catalyze the NADPH-dependent oxygenation of various nitrogen-,sulfur-, and phosphorous-containing xenobiotics such as therapeutic drugs, dietary compounds, pesticides, and other foreign compounds. The human FMO gene family is composed of 5 genes and multiple pseudogenes. FMO members have distinct developmental- and tissue-specific expression patterns. The expression of this FMO3 gene, the major FMO expressed in adult liver, can vary up to 20-fold between individuals. This inter-individual variation in FMO3 expression levels is likely to have significant effects on the rate at which xenobiotics are metabolised and, therefore, is of considerable interest to the pharmaceutical industry. This transmembrane protein localizes to the endoplasmic reticulum of many tissues. Alternative splicing of this gene results in multiple transcript variants encoding different isoforms. Mutations in this gene cause the disorder trimethylaminuria (TMAu) which is characterized by the accumulation and excretion of unmetabolized trimethylamine and a distinctive body odor. In healthy individuals, trimethylamine is primarily converted to the non odorous trimethylamine N-oxide.
FMO4	Metabolic N-oxidation of diet-derived amino-trimethylamine (TMA) is mediated by flavin-containing monooxygenase and is subject to an inherited FMO3 polymorphism in man. This results in a small subpopulation with reduced TMA N-oxidation capacity and causes fish odor syndrome (Trimethylaminuria). Three forms of the enzyme are encoded by genes clustered in the 1q23-q25 region. Flavin-containing monooxygenases are NADPH-dependent flavoenzymes that catalyzes the oxidation of soft nucleophilic heteroatom centers in drugs, pesticides, and xenobiotics.
FMO5	Metabolic N-oxidation of the diet-derived amino-trimethylamine (TMA) is mediated by flavin-containing monooxygenase and is subject to an inherited FMO3 polymorphism in man resulting in a small subpopulation with reduced TMA N-oxidation capacity resulting in fish odor syndrome Trimethylaminuria. Three forms of the enzyme, FMO1 found in fetal liver, FMO2 found in adult liver, and FMO3 are encoded by genes clustered in the 1q23-q25 region. Flavin-containing monooxygenases are NADPH-dependent flavoenzymes that catalyzes the oxidation of soft nucleophilic heteroatom centers in drugs, pesticides, and xenobiotics. Alternative splicing results in multiple transcript variants.
FN1	This gene encodes fibronectin, a glycoprotein present in a soluble dimeric form in plasma, and in a dimeric or multimeric form at the cell surface and in extracellular matrix. The encoded preproprotein is proteolytically processed to generate the mature protein. Fibronectin is involved in cell adhesion and migration processes including embryogenesis, wound healing, blood coagulation, host defense, and metastasis. The gene has three regions subject to alternative splicing, with the potential to produce 20 different transcript variants, at least one of which encodes an isoform that undergoes proteolytic processing. The full-length nature of some variants has not been determined.
FNTA	Prenyltransferases can attach either a farnesyl group or a geranylgeranyl group in thioether linkage to the cysteine residue of proteins with a C-terminal CAAX box. CAAX geranylgeranyltransferase and CAAX farnesyltransferase are heterodimers that share the same alpha subunit but have different beta subunits. This gene encodes the alpha subunit of these transferases. Alternative splicing results in multiple transcript variants. Related pseudogenes have been identified on chromosomes 11 and 13.
FNTB	This gene is a Protein Coding gene. Among its related pathways are Olfactory Signaling Pathway and Visual phototransduction. Enables zinc ion binding activity. Contributes to protein farnesyltransferase activity. Involved in protein farnesylation. Part of microtubule associated complex and protein farnesyltransferase complex.
FOLH1	This gene encodes a type II transmembrane glycoprotein belonging to the M28 peptidase family. The protein acts as a glutamate carboxypeptidase on different alternative substrates, including the nutrient folate and the neuropeptide N-acetyl-l-aspartyl-l-glutamate and is expressed in a number of tissues such as prostate, central and peripheral nervous system and kidney. A mutation in this gene may be associated with impaired intestinal absorption of dietary folates, resulting in low blood folate levels and consequent hyperhomocysteinemia. Expression of this protein in the brain may be involved in a number of pathological conditions associated with glutamate excitotoxicity. In the prostate the protein is up-regulated in cancerous cells and is used as an effective diagnostic and prognostic indicator of prostate cancer. This gene likely arose from a duplication event of a nearby chromosomal region. Alternative splicing gives rise to multiple transcript variants encoding several different isoforms.
FOLR1	The protein encoded by this gene is a member of the folate receptor family. Members of this gene family bind folic acid and its reduced derivatives, and transport 5-methyltetrahydrofolate into cells. This gene product is a secreted protein that either anchors to membranes via a glycosyl-phosphatidylinositol linkage or exists in a soluble form. Mutations in this gene have been associated with neurodegeneration due to cerebral folate transport deficiency. Due to the presence of two promoters, multiple transcription start sites, and alternative splicing, multiple transcript variants encoding the same protein have been found for this gene.
FOLR2	The protein encoded by this gene is a member of the folate receptor (FOLR) family, and these genes exist in a cluster on chromosome 11. Members of this gene family have a high affinity for folic acid and for several reduced folic acid derivatives, and they mediate delivery of 5-methyltetrahydrofolate to the interior of cells. This protein has a 68% and 79% sequence homology with the FOLR1 and FOLR3 proteins, respectively. Although this protein was originally thought to be specific to placenta, it can also exist in other tissues, and it may play a role in the transport of methotrexate in synovial macrophages in rheumatoid arthritis patients. Multiple transcript variants that encode the same protein have been found for this gene.
FOS	The Fos gene family consists of 4 members: FOS, FOSB, FOSL1, and FOSL2.  These genes encode leucine zipper proteins that can dimerize with proteins of the JUN family, thereby forming the transcription factor complex AP-1.  As such, the FOS proteins have been implicated as regulators of cell proliferation, differentiation, and transformation.  In some cases, expression of the FOS gene has also been associated with apoptotic cell death.
FOXO1	This gene belongs to the forkhead family of transcription factors which are characterized by a distinct forkhead domain.  The specific function of this gene has not yet been determined; however, it may play a role in myogenic growth and differentiation. Translocation of this gene with PAX3 has been associated with alveolar rhabdomyosarcoma.
FOXO3	This gene belongs to the forkhead family of transcription factors which are characterized by a distinct forkhead domain. This gene likely functions as a trigger for apoptosis through expression of genes necessary for cell death. Translocation of this gene with the MLL gene is associated with secondary acute leukemia. Alternatively spliced transcript variants encoding the same protein have been observed.
FPGS	This gene encodes the folylpolyglutamate synthetase enzyme. This enzyme has a central role in establishing and maintaining both cytosolic and mitochondrial folylpolyglutamate concentrations and, therefore, is essential for folate homeostasis and the survival of proliferating cells. This enzyme catalyzes the ATP-dependent addition of glutamate moieties to folate and folate derivatives. Alternative splicing results in transcript variants encoding different isoforms.
FPR1	This gene encodes a G protein-coupled receptor of mammalian phagocytic cells that is a member of the G-protein coupled receptor 1 family. The protein mediates the response of phagocytic cells to invasion of the host by microorganisms and is important in host defense and inflammation.
FPR2	Low affinity receptor for N-formyl-methionyl peptides, which are powerful neutrophil chemotactic factors .
FRK	The protein encoded by this gene belongs to the TYR family of protein kinases. This tyrosine kinase is a nuclear protein and may function during G1 and S phase of the cell cycle and suppress growth.
FSHR	The protein encoded by this gene belongs to family 1 of G-protein coupled receptors. It is the receptor for follicle stimulating hormone and functions in gonad development. Mutations in this gene cause ovarian dysgenesis type 1, and also ovarian hyperstimulation syndrome. Alternative splicing results in multiple transcript variants.
FTO	This gene is a nuclear protein of the AlkB related non-haem iron and 2-oxoglutarate-dependent oxygenase superfamily but the exact physiological function of this gene is not known. Other non-heme iron enzymes function to reverse alkylated DNA and RNA damage by oxidative demethylation. Studies in mice and humans indicate a role in nervous and cardiovascular systems and a strong association with body mass index, obesity risk, and type 2 diabetes.
FUCA1	The protein encoded by this gene is a lysosomal enzyme involved in the degradation of fucose-containing glycoproteins and glycolipids. Mutations in this gene are associated with fucosidosis (FUCA1D), which is an autosomal recessive lysosomal storage disease. A pseudogene of this locus is present on chr 2.
FUCA2	This gene encodes a plasma alpha-L-fucosidase, which represents 10-20% of the total cellular fucosidase activity. The protein is a member of the glycosyl hydrolase 29 family, and catalyzes the hydrolysis of the alpha-1,6-linked fucose joined to the reducing-end N-acetylglucosamine of the carbohydrate moieties of glycoproteins. This enzyme is essential for Helicobacter pylori adhesion to human gastric cancer cells.
FURIN	This gene encodes a member of the subtilisin-like proprotein convertase family, which includes proteases that process protein and peptide precursors trafficking through regulated or constitutive branches of the secretory pathway. It encodes a type 1 membrane bound protease that is expressed in many tissues, including neuroendocrine, liver, gut, and brain. The encoded protein undergoes an initial autocatalytic processing event in the ER and then sorts to the trans-Golgi network through endosomes where a second autocatalytic event takes place and the catalytic activity is acquired. The product of this gene is one of the seven basic amino acid-specific members which cleave their substrates at single or paired basic residues. Some of its substrates include proparathyroid hormone, transforming growth factor beta 1 precursor, proalbumin, pro-beta-secretase, membrane type-1 matrix metalloproteinase, beta subunit of pro-nerve growth factor and von Willebrand factor. It is also thought to be one of the proteases responsible for the activation of HIV envelope glycoproteins gp160 and gp140 and may play a role in tumor progression. This gene is located in close proximity to family member proprotein convertase subtilisin/kexin type 6 and upstream of the FES oncogene. Alternative splicing results in multiple transcript variants.
FUT10	Probable fucosyltransferase.
FUT3	The Lewis histo-blood group system comprises a set of fucosylated glycosphingolipids that are synthesized by exocrine epithelial cells and circulate in body fluids. The glycosphingolipids function in embryogenesis, tissue differentiation, tumor metastasis, inflammation, and bacterial adhesion. They are secondarily absorbed to red blood cells giving rise to their Lewis phenotype. This gene is a member of the fucosyltransferase family, which catalyzes the addition of fucose to precursor polysaccharides in the last step of Lewis antigen biosynthesis. It encodes an enzyme with alpha(1,3)-fucosyltransferase and alpha(1,4)-fucosyltransferase activities. Mutations in this gene are responsible for the majority of Lewis antigen-negative phenotypes. Multiple alternatively spliced variants, encoding the same protein, have been found for this gene.
FUT4	The product of this gene transfers fucose to N-acetyllactosamine polysaccharides to generate fucosylated carbohydrate structures. It catalyzes the synthesis of the non-sialylated antigen, Lewis x (CD15).
FUT5	May catalyze alpha-1,3 glycosidic linkages involved in the expression of VIM-2, Lewis X/SSEA-1 and sialyl Lewis X antigens.
FUT6	The protein encoded by this gene is a Golgi stack membrane protein that is involved in the creation of sialyl-Lewis X, an E-selectin ligand. Mutations in this gene are a cause of fucosyltransferase-6 deficiency. Two transcript variants encoding the same protein have been found for this gene.
FUT7	The protein encoded by this gene is a Golgi stack membrane protein that is involved in the creation of sialyl-Lewis X antigens. The encoded protein can direct the synthesis of the E-selectin-binding sialyl-Lewis X moiety.
FUT8	This gene encodes an enzyme belonging to the family of fucosyltransferases. The product of this gene catalyzes the transfer of fucose from GDP-fucose to N-linked type complex glycopeptides. This enzyme is distinct from other fucosyltransferases which catalyze alpha1-2, alpha1-3, and alpha1-4 fucose addition. The expression of this gene may contribute to the malignancy of cancer cells and to their invasive and metastatic capabilities. Alternative splicing results in multiple transcript variants.
FUT9	The protein encoded by this gene belongs to the glycosyltransferase family. It is localized to the golgi, and catalyzes the last step in the biosynthesis of Lewis X (LeX) antigen, the addition of a fucose to precursor polysaccharides. This protein is one of the few fucosyltransferases that synthesizes the LeX oligosaccharide (CD15) expressed in the organ buds progressing in mesenchyma during embryogenesis. It is also responsible for the expression of CD15 in mature granulocytes. A common haplotype of this gene has also been associated with susceptibility to placental malaria infection.
FXN	This nuclear gene encodes a mitochondrial protein which belongs to the FRATAXIN family. The protein functions in regulating mitochondrial iron transport and respiration. The expansion of intronic trinucleotide repeat GAA from 8-33 repeats to >90 repeats results in Friedreich ataxia. Alternative splicing results in multiple transcript variants.
FXR1	The protein encoded by this gene is an RNA binding protein that interacts with the functionally-similar proteins FMR1 and FXR2. These proteins shuttle between the nucleus and cytoplasm and associate with polyribosomes, predominantly with the 60S ribosomal subunit. Three transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been found for this gene.
FYN	This gene is a member of the protein-tyrosine kinase oncogene family. It encodes a membrane-associated tyrosine kinase that has been implicated in the control of cell growth. The protein associates with the p85 subunit of phosphatidylinositol 3-kinase and interacts with the fyn-binding protein. Alternatively spliced transcript variants encoding distinct isoforms exist.
FZD1	 Members of the 'frizzled' gene family encode 7-transmembrane domain proteins that are receptors for Wnt signaling proteins.  The FZD1 protein contains a signal peptide, a cysteine-rich domain in the N-terminal extracellular region, 7 transmembrane domains, and a C-terminal PDZ domain-binding motif.  The FZD1 transcript is expressed in various tissues.
FZD2	This intronless gene is a member of the frizzled gene family. Members of this family encode seven-transmembrane domain proteins that are receptors for the wingless type MMTV integration site family of signaling proteins. This gene encodes a protein that is coupled to the beta-catenin canonical signaling pathway. Competition between the wingless-type MMTV integration site family, member 3A and wingless-type MMTV integration site family, member 5A gene products for binding of this protein is thought to regulate the beta-catenin-dependent and -independent pathways.
FZD5	 Members of the 'frizzled' gene family encode 7-transmembrane domain proteins that are receptors for Wnt signaling proteins.  The FZD5 protein is believed to be the receptor for the Wnt5A ligand.
FZD7	 Members of the 'frizzled' gene family encode 7-transmembrane domain proteins that are receptors for Wnt signaling proteins.  The FZD7 protein contains an N-terminal signal sequence, 10 cysteine residues typical of the cysteine-rich extracellular domain of Fz family members, 7 putative transmembrane domains, and an intracellular C-terminal tail with a PDZ domain-binding motif.  FZD7 gene expression may downregulate APC function and enhance beta-catenin-mediated signals in poorly differentiated human esophageal carcinomas.
FZD8	This intronless gene is a member of the frizzled gene family. Members of this family encode seven-transmembrane domain proteins that are receptors for the Wingless type MMTV integration site family of signaling proteins. Most frizzled receptors are coupled to the beta-catenin canonical signaling pathway. This gene is highly expressed in two human cancer cell lines, indicating that it may play a role in several types of cancer. The crystal structure of the extracellular cysteine-rich domain of a similar mouse protein has been determined.
G6PC	Glucose-6-phosphatase (G6Pase) is a multi-subunit integral membrane protein of the endoplasmic reticulum that is composed of a catalytic subunit and transporters for G6P, inorganic phosphate, and glucose. This gene (G6PC) is one of the three glucose-6-phosphatase catalytic-subunit-encoding genes in human: G6PC, G6PC2 and G6PC3. Glucose-6-phosphatase catalyzes the hydrolysis of D-glucose 6-phosphate to D-glucose and orthophosphate and is a key enzyme in glucose homeostasis, functioning in gluconeogenesis and glycogenolysis. Mutations in this gene cause glycogen storage disease type I (GSD1). This disease, also known as von Gierke disease, is a metabolic disorder characterized by severe hypoglycemia associated with the accumulation of glycogen and fat in the liver and kidneys.
G6PD	This gene encodes glucose-6-phosphate dehydrogenase. This protein is a cytosolic enzyme encoded by a housekeeping X-linked gene whose main function is to produce NADPH, a key electron donor in the defense against oxidizing agents and in reductive biosynthetic reactions. G6PD is remarkable for its genetic diversity. Many variants of G6PD, mostly produced from missense mutations, have been described with wide ranging levels of enzyme activity and associated clinical symptoms. G6PD deficiency may cause neonatal jaundice, acute hemolysis, or severe chronic non-spherocytic hemolytic anemia. Two transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been found for this gene.
GAA	This gene encodes lysosomal alpha-glucosidase, which is essential for the degradation of glycogen to glucose in lysosomes. The encoded preproprotein is proteolytically processed to generate multiple intermediate forms and the mature form of the enzyme. Defects in this gene are the cause of glycogen storage disease II, also known as Pompe's disease, which is an autosomal recessive disorder with a broad clinical spectrum. Alternative splicing results in multiple transcript variants.
GABBR1	This gene encodes a receptor for gamma-aminobutyric acid (GABA), which is the main inhibitory neurotransmitter in the mammalian central nervous system. This receptor functions as a heterodimer with GABA(B) receptor 2. Defects in this gene may underlie brain disorders such as schizophrenia and epilepsy. Alternative splicing generates multiple transcript variants, but the full-length nature of some of these variants has not been determined.
GABBR2	The multi-pass membrane protein encoded by this gene belongs to the G-protein coupled receptor 3 family and GABA-B receptor subfamily. The GABA-B receptors inhibit neuronal activity through G protein-coupled second-messenger systems, which regulate the release of neurotransmitters, and the activity of ion channels and adenylyl cyclase. This receptor subunit forms an active heterodimeric complex with GABA-B receptor subunit 1, neither of which is effective on its own. Allelic variants of this gene have been associated with nicotine dependence.
GABRA1	This gene encodes a gamma-aminobutyric acid (GABA) receptor. GABA is the major inhibitory neurotransmitter in the mammalian brain where it acts at GABA-A receptors, which are ligand-gated chloride channels. Chloride conductance of these channels can be modulated by agents such as benzodiazepines that bind to the GABA-A receptor. GABA-A receptors are pentameric, consisting of proteins from several subunit classes: alpha, beta, gamma, delta and rho. Mutations in this gene cause juvenile myoclonic epilepsy and childhood absence epilepsy type 4. Multiple transcript variants encoding the same protein have been identified for this gene.
GABRA2	GABA is the major inhibitory neurotransmitter in the mammalian brain where it acts at GABA-A receptors, which are ligand-gated chloride channels. Chloride conductance of these channels can be modulated by agents such as benzodiazepines that bind to the GABA-A receptor. At least 16 distinct subunits of GABA-A receptors have been identified. Alternatively spliced transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been found for this gene.
GABRA4	Gamma-aminobutyric acid (GABA) is the major inhibitory neurotransmitter in the mammalian brain where it acts at GABA-A receptors, which are ligand-gated chloride channels. Chloride conductance of these channels can be modulated by agents such as benzodiazepines that bind to the GABA-A receptor. At least 16 distinct subunits of GABA-A receptors have been identified. This gene encodes subunit alpha-4, which is involved in the etiology of autism and eventually increases autism risk through interaction with another subunit, gamma-aminobutyric acid receptor beta-1 (GABRB1). Alternatively spliced transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been found in this gene.
GABRA5	GABA is the major inhibitory neurotransmitter in the mammalian brain where it acts at GABA-A receptors, which are ligand-gated chloride channels. Chloride conductance of these channels can be modulated by agents such as benzodiazepines that bind to the GABA-A receptor. At least 16 distinct subunits of GABA-A receptors have been identified. Transcript variants utilizing three different alternative non-coding first exons have been described.
GABRB2	The gamma-aminobutyric acid (GABA) A receptor is a multisubunit chloride channel that mediates the fastest inhibitory synaptic transmission in the central nervous system. This gene encodes GABA A receptor, beta 2 subunit. It is mapped to chromosome 5q34 in a cluster comprised of genes encoding alpha 1 and gamma 2 subunits of the GABA A receptor. Alternative splicing of this gene generates 2 transcript variants, differing by a 114 bp insertion.
GABRB3	This gene encodes a member of the ligand-gated ionic channel family. The encoded protein is one the subunits of a multi-subunit chloride channel that serves as the receptor for gamma-aminobutyric acid, a major inhibitory neurotransmitter of the mammalian nervous system. This gene is located on the long arm of chromosome 15 in a cluster with two other genes encoding related subunits of the family. This gene may be associated with the pathogenesis of several disorders including Angelman syndrome, Prader-Willi syndrome, nonsyndromic orofacial clefts, epilepsy and autism. Alternatively spliced transcript variants encoding distinct isoforms have been described.
GABRD	Gamma-aminobutyric acid (GABA) is the major inhibitory neurotransmitter in the mammalian brain where it acts at GABA-A receptors, which are ligand-gated chloride channels. Chloride conductance of these channels can be modulated by agents such as benzodiazepines that bind to the GABA-A receptor. The GABA-A receptor is generally pentameric and there are five types of subunits: alpha, beta, gamma, delta, and rho. This gene encodes the delta subunit. Mutations in this gene have been associated with susceptibility to generalized epilepsy with febrile seizures, type 5. Alternatively spliced transcript variants have been described for this gene, but their biological validity has not been determined.
GABRG2	This gene encodes a gamma-aminobutyric acid (GABA) receptor. GABA is the major inhibitory neurotransmitter in the mammlian brain, where it acts at GABA-A receptors, which are ligand-gated chloride channels. GABA-A receptors are pentameric, consisting of proteins from several subunit classes: alpha, beta, gamma, delta and rho. Mutations in this gene have been associated with epilepsy and febrile seizures. Multiple transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been identified for this gene.
GABRP	The gamma-aminobutyric acid (GABA) A receptor is a multisubunit chloride channel that mediates the fastest inhibitory synaptic transmission in the central nervous system. The subunit encoded by this gene is expressed in several non-neuronal tissues including the uterus and ovaries. This subunit can assemble with known GABA A receptor subunits, and the presence of this subunit alters the sensitivity of recombinant receptors to modulatory agents such as pregnanolone. Alternatively spliced transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been found for this gene.
GABRR1	GABA is the major inhibitory neurotransmitter in the mammalian brain where it acts at GABA receptors, which are ligand-gated chloride channels. GABRR1 is a member of the rho subunit family. Several transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been found for this gene.
GABRR2	Gamma-aminobutyric acid (GABA) is the major inhibitory neurotransmitter in the mammalian brain where it acts at GABA receptors, which are ligand-gated chloride channels. The protein encoded by this gene is a member of the rho subunit family and is a component of the GABA type A receptor complex. This gene exists on chromosome 6q next to the gene encoding the rho 1 subunit of the GABA type A receptor, in a region thought to be associated with susceptibility for psychiatric disorders and epilepsy. Polymorphisms in this gene may also be associated with alcohol dependence, and general cognitive ability.
GAD1	This gene encodes one of several forms of glutamic acid decarboxylase, identified as a major autoantigen in insulin-dependent diabetes. The enzyme encoded is responsible for catalyzing the production of gamma-aminobutyric acid from L-glutamic acid. A pathogenic role for this enzyme has been identified in the human pancreas since it has been identified as an autoantigen and an autoreactive T cell target in insulin-dependent diabetes. This gene may also play a role in the stiff man syndrome. Deficiency in this enzyme has been shown to lead to pyridoxine dependency with seizures. Alternative splicing of this gene results in two products, the predominant 67-kD form and a less-frequent 25-kD form.
GAD2	This gene encodes one of several forms of glutamic acid decarboxylase, identified as a major autoantigen in insulin-dependent diabetes. The enzyme encoded is responsible for catalyzing the production of gamma-aminobutyric acid from L-glutamic acid. A pathogenic role for this enzyme has been identified in the human pancreas since it has been identified as an autoantibody and an autoreactive T cell target in insulin-dependent diabetes. This gene may also play a role in the stiff man syndrome. Alternative splicing results in multiple transcript variants that encode the same protein.
GAK	In all eukaryotes, the cell cycle is governed by cyclin-dependent protein kinases (CDKs), whose activities are regulated by cyclins and CDK inhibitors in a diverse array of mechanisms that involve the control of phosphorylation and dephosphorylation of Ser, Thr or Tyr residues. Cyclins are molecules that possess a consensus domain called the 'cyclin box.' In mammalian cells, 9 cyclin species have been identified, and they are referred to as cyclins A through I. Cyclin G is a direct transcriptional target of the p53 tumor suppressor gene product and thus functions downstream of p53. GAK is an association partner of cyclin G and CDK5. Alternative splicing results in multiple transcript variants encoding different isoforms.
GALC	This gene encodes a lysosomal protein which hydrolyzes the galactose ester bonds of galactosylceramide, galactosylsphingosine, lactosylceramide, and monogalactosyldiglyceride. Mutations in this gene have been associated with Krabbe disease, also known as globoid cell leukodystrophy. Alternate transcriptional splice variants, encoding different isoforms, have been characterized.
GALE	This gene encodes UDP-galactose-4-epimerase which catalyzes two distinct but analogous reactions: the epimerization of UDP-glucose to UDP-galactose, and the epimerization of UDP-N-acetylglucosamine to UDP-N-acetylgalactosamine. The bifunctional nature of the enzyme has the important metabolic consequence that mutant cells (or individuals) are dependent not only on exogenous galactose, but also on exogenous N-acetylgalactosamine as a necessary precursor for the synthesis of glycoproteins and glycolipids. Mutations in this gene result in epimerase-deficiency galactosemia, also referred to as galactosemia type 3, a disease characterized by liver damage, early-onset cataracts, deafness and cognitive disability, with symptoms ranging from mild ('peripheral' form) to severe ('generalized' form). Multiple alternatively spliced transcripts encoding the same protein have been identified.
GALK1	Galactokinase is a major enzyme for the metabolism of galactose and its deficiency causes congenital cataracts during infancy and presenile cataracts in the adult population.
GALNT2	This gene encodes a member of the glycosyltransferase 2 protein family. Members of this family initiate mucin-type O-glycoslation of peptides in the Golgi apparatus. The encoded protein may be involved in O-linked glycosylation of the immunoglobulin A1 hinge region. This gene may influence triglyceride levels, and may be involved Type 2 diabetes, as well as several types of cancer. Alternative splicing results in multiple transcript variants.
GALR1	The neuropeptide galanin elicits a range of biological effects by interaction with specific G-protein-coupled receptors.  Galanin receptors are seven-transmembrane proteins shown to activate a variety of intracellular second-messenger pathways.  GALR1 inhibits adenylyl cyclase via a G protein of the Gi/Go family.  GALR1 is widely expressed in the brain and spinal cord, as well as in peripheral sites such as the small intestine and heart.
GALR2	Galanin is an important neuromodulator present in the brain, gastrointestinal system, and hypothalamopituitary axis. It is a 30-amino acid non-C-terminally amidated peptide that potently stimulates growth hormone secretion, inhibits cardiac vagal slowing of heart rate, abolishes sinus arrhythmia, and inhibits postprandial gastrointestinal motility. The actions of galanin are mediated through interaction with specific membrane receptors that are members of the 7-transmembrane family of G protein-coupled receptors. GALR2 interacts with the N-terminal residues of the galanin peptide. The primary signaling mechanism for GALR2 is through the phospholipase C/protein kinase C pathway (via Gq), in contrast to GALR1, which communicates its intracellular signal by inhibition of adenylyl cyclase through Gi. However, it has been demonstrated that GALR2 couples efficiently to both the Gq and Gi proteins to simultaneously activate 2 independent signal transduction pathways.
GALR3	The neuropeptide galanin modulates a variety of physiologic processes including cognition/memory, sensory/pain processing, hormone secretion, and feeding behavior.  The human galanin receptors are G protein-coupled receptors that functionally couple to their intracellular effector through distinct signaling pathways.  GALR3 is found in many tissues and may be expressed as 1.4-, 2.4-, and 5-kb transcripts
GANAB	This gene encodes the alpha subunit of glucosidase II and a member of the glycosyl hydrolase 31 family of proteins. The heterodimeric enzyme glucosidase II plays a role in protein folding and quality control by cleaving glucose residues from immature glycoproteins in the endoplasmic reticulum. Expression of the encoded protein is elevated in lung tumor tissue and in response to UV irradiation. Mutations in this gene cause autosomal-dominant polycystic kidney and liver disease.
GANC	Glycosyl hydrolase enzymes hydrolyse the glycosidic bond between two or more carbohydrates, or between a carbohydrate and a non-carbohydrate moiety. This gene encodes a member of glycosyl hydrolases family 31. This enzyme hydrolyses terminal, non-reducing 1,4-linked alpha-D-glucose residues and releases alpha-D-glucose. This is a key enzyme in glycogen metabolism and its gene localizes to a chromosomal region (15q15) that is associated with susceptibility to diabetes. Alternative splicing results in multiple transcript variants encoding different isoforms.
GAPDH	This gene encodes a member of the glyceraldehyde-3-phosphate dehydrogenase protein family. The encoded protein has been identified as a moonlighting protein based on its ability to perform mechanistically distinct functions. The product of this gene catalyzes an important energy-yielding step in carbohydrate metabolism, the reversible oxidative phosphorylation of glyceraldehyde-3-phosphate in the presence of inorganic phosphate and nicotinamide adenine dinucleotide (NAD). The encoded protein has additionally been identified to have uracil DNA glycosylase activity in the nucleus. Also, this protein contains a peptide that has antimicrobial activity against E. coli, P. aeruginosa, and C. albicans. Studies of a similar protein in mouse have assigned a variety of additional functions including nitrosylation of nuclear proteins, the regulation of mRNA stability, and acting as a transferrin receptor on the cell surface of macrophage. Many pseudogenes similar to this locus are present in the human genome. Alternative splicing results in multiple transcript variants.
GART	The protein encoded by this gene is a trifunctional polypeptide. It has phosphoribosylglycinamide formyltransferase, phosphoribosylglycinamide synthetase, phosphoribosylaminoimidazole synthetase activity which is required for de novo purine biosynthesis. This enzyme is highly conserved in vertebrates. Alternative splicing of this gene results in two transcript variants encoding different isoforms.
GATA4	This gene encodes a member of the GATA family of zinc-finger transcription factors. Members of this family recognize the GATA motif which is present in the promoters of many genes. This protein is thought to regulate genes involved in embryogenesis and in myocardial differentiation and function, and is necessary for normal testicular development. Mutations in this gene have been associated with cardiac septal defects. Additionally, alterations in gene expression have been associated with several cancer types. Alternative splicing results in multiple transcript variants.
GBA	This gene encodes a lysosomal membrane protein that cleaves the beta-glucosidic linkage of glycosylceramide, an intermediate in glycolipid metabolism. Mutations in this gene cause Gaucher disease, a lysosomal storage disease characterized by an accumulation of glucocerebrosides. A related pseudogene is approximately 12 kb downstream of this gene on chromosome 1. Alternative splicing results in multiple transcript variants.
GBA2	This gene encodes a microsomal beta-glucosidase that catalyzes the hydrolysis of bile acid 3-O-glucosides as endogenous compounds. Studies to determine subcellular localization of this protein in the liver indicated that the enzyme was mainly enriched in the microsomal fraction where it appeared to be confined to the endoplasmic reticulum. This putative transmembrane protein is thought to play a role in carbohydrate transport and metabolism.
GC	The protein encoded by this gene belongs to the albumin gene family. It is a multifunctional protein found in plasma, ascitic fluid, cerebrospinal fluid and on the surface of many cell types. It binds to vitamin D and its plasma metabolites and transports them to target tissues. Alternatively spliced transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been found for this gene.
GCDH	The protein encoded by this gene belongs to the acyl-CoA dehydrogenase family. It catalyzes the oxidative decarboxylation of glutaryl-CoA to crotonyl-CoA and CO(2) in the degradative pathway of L-lysine, L-hydroxylysine, and L-tryptophan metabolism. It uses electron transfer flavoprotein as its electron acceptor. The enzyme exists in the mitochondrial matrix as a homotetramer of 45-kD subunits. Mutations in this gene result in the metabolic disorder glutaric aciduria type 1, which is also known as glutaric acidemia type I. Alternative splicing of this gene results in multiple transcript variants. A related pseudogene has been identified on chromosome 12.
GCG	The protein encoded by this gene is actually a preproprotein that is cleaved into four distinct mature peptides. One of these, glucagon, is a pancreatic hormone that counteracts the glucose-lowering action of insulin by stimulating glycogenolysis and gluconeogenesis. Glucagon is a ligand for a specific G-protein linked receptor whose signalling pathway controls cell proliferation. Two of the other peptides are secreted from gut endocrine cells and promote nutrient absorption through distinct mechanisms. Finally, the fourth peptide is similar to glicentin, an active enteroglucagon.
GCGR	The protein encoded by this gene is a glucagon receptor that is important in controlling blood glucose levels. Defects in this gene are a cause of non-insulin-dependent diabetes mellitus (NIDDM).
GCK	This gene encodes a member of the hexokinase family of proteins. Hexokinases phosphorylate glucose to produce glucose-6-phosphate, the first step in most glucose metabolism pathways. In contrast to other forms of hexokinase, this enzyme is not inhibited by its product glucose-6-phosphate but remains active while glucose is abundant. The use of multiple promoters and alternative splicing of this gene result in distinct protein isoforms that exhibit tissue-specific expression in the pancreas and liver. In the pancreas, this enzyme plays a role in glucose-stimulated insulin secretion, while in the liver, this enzyme is important in glucose uptake and conversion to glycogen. Mutations in this gene that alter enzyme activity have been associated with multiple types of diabetes and hyperinsulinemic hypoglycemia.
GCKR	This gene encodes a protein belonging to the GCKR subfamily of the SIS (Sugar ISomerase) family of proteins. The gene product is a regulatory protein that inhibits glucokinase in liver and pancreatic islet cells by binding non-covalently to form an inactive complex with the enzyme. This gene is considered a susceptibility gene candidate for a form of maturity-onset diabetes of the young (MODY).
GCLC	Glutamate-cysteine ligase, also known as gamma-glutamylcysteine synthetase is the first rate-limiting enzyme of glutathione synthesis. The enzyme consists of two subunits, a heavy catalytic subunit and a light regulatory subunit. This locus encodes the catalytic subunit, while the regulatory subunit is derived from a different gene located on chromosome 1p22-p21. Mutations at this locus have been associated with hemolytic anemia due to deficiency of gamma-glutamylcysteine synthetase and susceptibility to myocardial infarction.
GCNT1	This gene is a member of the beta-1,6-N-acetylglucosaminyltransferase gene family. It is essential to the formation of Gal beta 1-3(GlcNAc beta 1-6)GalNAc structures and the core 2 O-glycan branch. The gene coding this enzyme was originally mapped to 9q21, but was later localized to 9q13. Multiple alternatively spliced variants, encoding the same protein, have been identified.
GDA	This gene encodes an enzyme responsible for the hydrolytic deamination of guanine. Studies in rat ortholog suggest this gene plays a role in microtubule assembly. Multiple transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been found for this gene.
GDF15	This gene encodes a secreted ligand of the TGF-beta (transforming growth factor-beta) superfamily of proteins. Ligands of this family bind various TGF-beta receptors leading to recruitment and activation of SMAD family transcription factors that regulate gene expression. The encoded preproprotein is proteolytically processed to generate each subunit of the disulfide-linked homodimer. The protein is expressed in a broad range of cell types, acts as a pleiotropic cytokine and is involved in the stress response program of cells after cellular injury. Increased protein levels are associated with disease states such as tissue hypoxia, inflammation, acute injury and oxidative stress.
GDF2	This gene encodes a secreted ligand of the TGF-beta (transforming growth factor-beta) superfamily of proteins. Ligands of this family bind various TGF-beta receptors leading to recruitment and activation of SMAD family transcription factors that regulate gene expression. The encoded preproprotein is proteolytically processed to generate each subunit of the disulfide-linked homodimer. This protein regulates cartilage and bone development, angiogenesis and differentiation of cholinergic central nervous system neurons. Mutations in this gene are associated with hereditary hemorrhagic telangiectasia.
GFER	The hepatotrophic factor designated augmenter of liver regeneration (ALR) is thought to be one of the factors responsible for the extraordinary regenerative capacity of mammalian liver. It has also been called hepatic regenerative stimulation substance (HSS). The gene resides on chromosome 16 in the interval containing the locus for polycystic kidney disease (PKD1). The putative gene product is 42% similar to the scERV1 protein of yeast. The yeast scERV1 gene had been found to be essential for oxidative phosphorylation, the maintenance of mitochondrial genomes, and the cell division cycle. The human gene is both the structural and functional homolog of the yeast scERV1 gene.
GFPT1	This gene encodes the first and rate-limiting enzyme of the hexosamine pathway and controls the flux of glucose into the hexosamine pathway. The product of this gene catalyzes the formation of glucosamine 6-phosphate.
GFRA1	This gene encodes a member of the glial cell line-derived neurotrophic factor receptor (GDNFR) family of proteins. The encoded preproprotein is proteolytically processed to generate the mature receptor. Glial cell line-derived neurotrophic factor (GDNF) and neurturin (NTN) are two structurally related, potent neurotrophic factors that play key roles in the control of neuron survival and differentiation. This receptor is a glycosylphosphatidylinositol (GPI)-linked cell surface receptor for both GDNF and NTN, and mediates activation of the RET tyrosine kinase receptor. This gene is a candidate gene for Hirschsprung disease. Alternative splicing results in multiple transcript variants, at least one of which encodes a preproprotein that is proteolytically processed.
GGCX	This gene encodes an integral membrane protein of the rough endoplasmic reticulum that carboxylates glutamate residues of vitamin K-dependent proteins to gamma carboxyl glutamate, a modification that is required for their activity. The vitamin K-dependent protein substrates have a propeptide that binds the enzyme, with carbon dioxide, dioxide, and reduced vitamin K acting as co-substrates. Vitamin K-dependent proteins affect a number of physiologic processes including blood coagulation, prevention of vascular calcification, and inflammation. Allelic variants of this gene have been associated with pseudoxanthoma elasticum-like disorder with associated multiple coagulation factor deficiency. Alternative splicing results in multiple transcript variants.
GGH	This gene catalyzes the hydrolysis of folylpoly-gamma-glutamates and antifolylpoly-gamma-glutamates by the removal of gamma-linked polyglutamates and glutamate.
GGPS1	This gene is a member of the prenyltransferase family and encodes a protein with geranylgeranyl diphosphate (GGPP) synthase activity. The enzyme catalyzes the synthesis of GGPP from farnesyl diphosphate and isopentenyl diphosphate. GGPP is an important molecule responsible for the C20-prenylation of proteins and for the regulation of a nuclear hormone receptor. Alternate transcriptional splice variants, both protein-coding and non-protein-coding, have been found for this gene.
GGT1	The enzyme encoded by this gene is a type I gamma-glutamyltransferase that catalyzes the transfer of the glutamyl moiety of glutathione to a variety of amino acids and dipeptide acceptors. The enzyme is composed of a heavy chain and a light chain, which are derived from a single precursor protein. It is expressed in tissues involved in absorption and secretion and may contribute to the etiology of diabetes and other metabolic disorders. Multiple alternatively spliced variants have been identified. There are a number of related genes present on chromosomes 20 and 22, and putative pseudogenes for this gene on chromosomes 2, 13, and 22.
GHR	This gene encodes a member of the type I cytokine receptor family, which is a transmembrane receptor for growth hormone. Binding of growth hormone to the receptor leads to receptor dimerization and the activation of an intra- and intercellular signal transduction pathway leading to growth. Mutations in this gene have been associated with Laron syndrome, also known as the growth hormone insensitivity syndrome (GHIS), a disorder characterized by short stature. In humans and rabbits, but not rodents, growth hormone binding protein (GHBP) is generated by proteolytic cleavage of the extracellular ligand-binding domain from the mature growth hormone receptor protein. Multiple alternatively spliced transcript variants have been found for this gene.
GHRHR	This gene encodes a receptor for growth hormone-releasing hormone. Binding of this hormone to the receptor leads to synthesis and release of growth hormone. Mutations in this gene have been associated with isolated growth hormone deficiency (IGHD), also known as Dwarfism of Sindh, a disorder characterized by short stature.
GHRL	This gene encodes the ghrelin-obestatin preproprotein that is cleaved to yield two peptides, ghrelin and obestatin. Ghrelin is a powerful appetite stimulant and plays an important role in energy homeostasis. Its secretion is initiated when the stomach is empty, whereupon it binds to the growth hormone secretagogue receptor in the hypothalamus which results in the secretion of growth hormone (somatotropin). Ghrelin is thought to regulate multiple activities, including hunger, reward perception via the mesolimbic pathway, gastric acid secretion, gastrointestinal motility, and pancreatic glucose-stimulated insulin secretion. It was initially proposed that obestatin plays an opposing role to ghrelin by promoting satiety and thus decreasing food intake, but this action is still debated. Recent reports suggest multiple metabolic roles for obestatin, including regulating adipocyte function and glucose metabolism. Alternative splicing results in multiple transcript variants. In addition, antisense transcripts for this gene have been identified and may potentially regulate ghrelin-obestatin preproprotein expression.
GHSR	This gene encodes a member of the G-protein coupled receptor family. The encoded protein may play a role in energy homeostasis and regulation of body weight. Two identified transcript variants are expressed in several tissues and are evolutionary conserved in fish and swine. One transcript, 1a, excises an intron and encodes the functional protein; this protein is the receptor for the Ghrelin ligand and defines a neuroendocrine pathway for growth hormone release. The second transcript (1b) retains the intron and does not function as a receptor for Ghrelin; however, it may function to attenuate activity of isoform 1a. Mutations in this gene are associated with autosomal idiopathic short stature.
GIGYF2	This gene contains CAG trinucleotide repeats and encodes a protein containing several stretches of polyglutamine residues. The encoded protein may be involved in the regulation of tyrosine kinase receptor signaling. This gene is located in a chromosomal region that was genetically linked to Parkinson disease type 11, and mutations in this gene were thought to be causative for this disease. However, more recent studies in different populations have been unable to replicate this association. Alternative splicing results in multiple transcript variants.
GIP	This gene encodes an incretin hormone and belongs to the glucagon superfamily. The encoded protein is important in maintaining glucose homeostasis as it is a potent stimulator of insulin secretion from pancreatic beta-cells following food ingestion and nutrient absorption. This gene stimulates insulin secretion via its G protein-coupled receptor activation of adenylyl cyclase and other signal transduction pathways. It is a relatively poor inhibitor of gastric acid secretion.
GIPR	This gene encodes a G-protein coupled receptor for gastric inhibitory polypeptide (GIP), which was originally identified as an activity in gut extracts that inhibited gastric acid secretion and gastrin release, but subsequently was demonstrated to stimulate insulin release in the presence of elevated glucose. Mice lacking this gene exhibit higher blood glucose levels with impaired initial insulin response after oral glucose load. Defect in this gene thus may contribute to the pathogenesis of diabetes.
GK	The protein encoded by this gene belongs to the FGGY kinase family. This protein is a key enzyme in the regulation of glycerol uptake and metabolism. It catalyzes the phosphorylation of glycerol by ATP, yielding ADP and glycerol-3-phosphate. Mutations in this gene are associated with glycerol kinase deficiency (GKD). Alternatively spliced transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been found for this gene.
GLA	This gene encodes a homodimeric glycoprotein that hydrolyses the terminal alpha-galactosyl moieties from glycolipids and glycoproteins. This enzyme predominantly hydrolyzes ceramide trihexoside, and it can catalyze the hydrolysis of melibiose into galactose and glucose. A variety of mutations in this gene affect the synthesis, processing, and stability of this enzyme, which causes Fabry disease, a rare lysosomal storage disorder that results from a failure to catabolize alpha-D-galactosyl glycolipid moieties.
GLB1	This gene encodes a member of the glycosyl hydrolase 35 family of proteins. Alternative splicing results in multiple transcript variants, at least one of which encodes a preproprotein that is proteolytically processed to generate the mature lysosomal enzyme. This enzyme catalyzes the hydrolysis of a terminal beta-linked galactose residue from ganglioside substrates and other glycoconjugates. Mutations in this gene may result in GM1-gangliosidosis and Morquio B syndrome.
GLI1	This gene encodes a member of the Kruppel family of zinc finger proteins. The encoded transcription factor is activated by the sonic hedgehog signal transduction cascade and regulates stem cell proliferation. The activity and nuclear localization of this protein is negatively regulated by p53 in an inhibitory loop. Multiple transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been found for this gene.
GLI2	This gene encodes a protein which belongs to the C2H2-type zinc finger protein subclass of the Gli family. Members of this subclass are characterized as transcription factors which bind DNA through zinc finger motifs. These motifs contain conserved H-C links. Gli family zinc finger proteins are mediators of Sonic hedgehog (Shh) signaling and they are implicated as potent oncogenes in the embryonal carcinoma cell. The protein encoded by this gene localizes to the cytoplasm and activates patched Drosophila homolog (PTCH) gene expression. It is also thought to play a role during embryogenesis. The encoded protein is associated with several phenotypes- Greig cephalopolysyndactyly syndrome, Pallister-Hall syndrome, preaxial polydactyly type IV, postaxial polydactyly types A1 and B.
GLO1	The enzyme encoded by this gene is responsible for the catalysis and formation of S-lactoyl-glutathione from methylglyoxal condensation and reduced glutatione.  Glyoxalase I is linked to HLA and is localized to 6p21.3-p21.1, between HLA and the centromere.
GLP1R	This gene encodes a 7-transmembrane protein that functions as a receptor for glucagon-like peptide 1 (GLP-1) hormone, which stimulates glucose-induced insulin secretion. This receptor, which functions at the cell surface, becomes internalized in response to GLP-1 and GLP-1 analogs, and it plays an important role in the signaling cascades leading to insulin secretion. It also displays neuroprotective effects in animal models. Polymorphisms in this gene are associated with diabetes. The protein is an important drug target for the treatment of type 2 diabetes and stroke. Alternative splicing of this gene results in multiple transcript variants.
GLP2R	This gene encodes a G protein-coupled receptor that is closely related to the glucagon receptor and binds to glucagon-like peptide-2 (GLP2). Signalling through GLP2 stimulates intestinal growth and increases villus height in the small intestine, concomitant with increased crypt cell proliferation and decreased enterocyte apoptosis.
GLRA1	The protein encoded by this gene is a subunit of a pentameric inhibitory glycine receptor, which mediates postsynaptic inhibition in the central nervous system. Defects in this gene are a cause of startle disease (STHE), also known as hereditary hyperekplexia or congenital stiff-person syndrome. Multiple transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been found.
GLRA2	The glycine receptor consists of two subunits, alpha and beta, and acts as a pentamer. The protein encoded by this gene is an alpha subunit and can bind strychnine. Several transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been found for this gene.
GLRA3	This gene encodes a member of the ligand-gated ion channel protein family. The encoded protein is a member of the glycine receptor subfamily. Alternative splicing results in multiple transcript variants.
GLS	This gene encodes the K-type mitochondrial glutaminase. The encoded protein is an phosphate-activated amidohydrolase that catalyzes the hydrolysis of glutamine to glutamate and ammonia. This protein is primarily expressed in the brain and kidney plays an essential role in generating energy for metabolism, synthesizing the brain neurotransmitter glutamate and maintaining acid-base balance in the kidney. Alternate splicing results in multiple transcript variants.
GLUL	The protein encoded by this gene belongs to the glutamine synthetase family. It catalyzes the synthesis of glutamine from glutamate and ammonia in an ATP-dependent reaction. This protein plays a role in ammonia and glutamate detoxification, acid-base homeostasis, cell signaling, and cell proliferation. Glutamine is an abundant amino acid, and is important to the biosynthesis of several amino acids, pyrimidines, and purines. Mutations in this gene are associated with congenital glutamine deficiency, and overexpression of this gene was observed in some primary liver cancer samples. There are six pseudogenes of this gene found on chromosomes 2, 5, 9, 11, and 12. Alternative splicing results in multiple transcript variants.
GMNN	This gene encodes a protein that plays a critical role in cell cycle regulation. The encoded protein inhibits DNA replication by binding to DNA replication factor Cdt1, preventing the incorporation of minichromosome maintenance proteins into the pre-replication complex. The encoded protein is expressed during the S and G2 phases of the cell cycle and is degraded by the anaphase-promoting complex during the metaphase-anaphase transition. Increased expression of this gene may play a role in several malignancies including colon, rectal and breast cancer. Alternatively spliced transcript variants have been observed for this gene, and two pseudogenes of this gene are located on the short arm of chromosome 16.
GMPS	In the de novo synthesis of purine nucleotides, IMP is the branch point metabolite at which point the pathway diverges to the synthesis of either guanine or adenine nucleotides. In the guanine nucleotide pathway, there are 2 enzymes involved in converting IMP to GMP, namely IMP dehydrogenase (IMPD1), which catalyzes the oxidation of IMP to XMP, and GMP synthetase, which catalyzes the amination of XMP to GMP.
GNA12	Guanine nucleotide-binding proteins (G proteins) are involved as modulators or transducers in various transmembrane signaling systems .
GNAI1	Guanine nucleotide binding proteins are heterotrimeric signal-transducing molecules consisting of alpha, beta, and gamma subunits. The alpha subunit binds guanine nucleotide, can hydrolyze GTP, and can interact with other proteins. The protein encoded by this gene represents the alpha subunit of an inhibitory complex. The encoded protein is part of a complex that responds to beta-adrenergic signals by inhibiting adenylate cyclase. Two transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been found for this gene.
GNAI3	Guanine nucleotide-binding proteins (G proteins) are involved as modulators or transducers in various transmembrane signaling pathways. G proteins are composed of 3 units: alpha, beta and gamma. This gene encodes an alpha subunit and belongs to the G-alpha family. Mutation in this gene, resulting in a gly40-to-arg substitution, is associated with auriculocondylar syndrome, and shown to affect downstream targets in the G protein-coupled endothelin receptor pathway.
GNAO1	The protein encoded by this gene represents the alpha subunit of the Go heterotrimeric G-protein signal-transducing complex. Defects in this gene are a cause of early-onset epileptic encephalopathy. Two transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been found for this gene.
GNAQ	This locus encodes a guanine nucleotide-binding protein. The encoded protein, an alpha subunit in the Gq class, couples a seven-transmembrane domain receptor to activation of phospolipase C-beta. Mutations at this locus have been associated with problems in platelet activation and aggregation. A related pseudogene exists on chromosome 2.
GNAS	This locus has a highly complex imprinted expression pattern. It gives rise to maternally, paternally, and biallelically expressed transcripts that are derived from four alternative promoters and 5' exons. Some transcripts contain a differentially methylated region (DMR) at their 5' exons, and this DMR is commonly found in imprinted genes and correlates with transcript expression. An antisense transcript is produced from an overlapping locus on the opposite strand. One of the transcripts produced from this locus, and the antisense transcript, are paternally expressed noncoding RNAs, and may regulate imprinting in this region. In addition, one of the transcripts contains a second overlapping ORF, which encodes a structurally unrelated protein
GNG2	This gene encodes one of the gamma subunits of a guanine nucleotide-binding protein. Such proteins are involved in signaling mechanisms across membranes. Various subunits forms heterodimers which then interact with the different signal molecules.
GNPAT	This gene encodes an enzyme located in the peroxisomal membrane which is essential to the synthesis of ether phospholipids. Mutations in this gene are associated with rhizomelic chondrodysplasia punctata. Two transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been found for this gene.
GNRHR	This gene encodes the receptor for type 1 gonadotropin-releasing hormone. This receptor is a member of the seven-transmembrane, G-protein coupled receptor (GPCR) family. It is expressed on the surface of pituitary gonadotrope cells as well as lymphocytes, breast, ovary, and prostate. Following binding of gonadotropin-releasing hormone, the receptor associates with G-proteins that activate a phosphatidylinositol-calcium second messenger system. Activation of the receptor ultimately causes the release of gonadotropic luteinizing hormone (LH) and follicle stimulating hormone (FSH). Defects in this gene are a cause of hypogonadotropic hypogonadism (HH). Alternative splicing results in multiple transcript variants encoding different isoforms. More than 18 transcription initiation sites in the 5' region and multiple polyA signals in the 3' region have been identified for this gene.
GOT1	Glutamic-oxaloacetic transaminase is a pyridoxal phosphate-dependent enzyme which exists in cytoplasmic and mitochondrial forms, GOT1 and GOT2, respectively.  GOT plays a role in amino acid metabolism and the urea and tricarboxylic acid cycles. The two enzymes are homodimeric and show close homology.
GP6	This gene encodes a platelet membrane glycoprotein of the immunoglobulin superfamily. The encoded protein is a receptor for collagen and plays a critical role in collagen-induced platelet aggregation and thrombus formation. The encoded protein forms a complex with the Fc receptor gamma-chain that initiates the platelet activation signaling cascade upon collagen binding. Mutations in this gene are a cause of platelet-type bleeding disorder-11 (BDPLT11). Alternatively spliced transcript variants encoding multiple isoforms have been observed for this gene.
GPAM	This gene encodes a mitochondrial enzyme which prefers saturated fatty acids as its substrate for the synthesis of glycerolipids. This metabolic pathway's first step is catalyzed by the encoded enzyme. Two forms for this enzyme exist, one in the mitochondria and one in the endoplasmic reticulum. Two alternatively spliced transcript variants have been described for this gene.
GPBAR1	This gene encodes a member of the G protein-coupled receptor (GPCR) superfamily. This enzyme functions as a cell surface receptor for bile acids. Treatment of cells expressing this GPCR with bile acids induces the production of intracellular cAMP, activation of a MAP kinase signaling pathway, and internalization of the receptor. The receptor is implicated in the suppression of macrophage functions and regulation of energy homeostasis by bile acids. Alternative splicing results in multiple transcript variants encoding the same protein.
GPD2	The protein encoded by this gene localizes to the inner mitochondrial membrane and catalyzes the conversion of glycerol-3-phosphate to dihydroxyacetone phosphate, using FAD as a cofactor. Along with GDP1, the encoded protein constitutes the glycerol phosphate shuttle, which reoxidizes NADH formed during glycolysis. Two transcript variants encoding the same protein have been found for this gene.
GPER1	This gene encodes a multi-pass membrane protein that localizes to the endoplasmic reticulum and a member of the G-protein coupled receptor 1 family. This receptor binds estrogen and activates multiple downstream signaling pathways, leading to stimulation of adenylate cyclase and an increase in cyclic AMP levels, while also promoting intracellular calcium mobilization and synthesis of phosphatidylinositol 3,4,5-trisphosphate in the nucleus. This protein therefore plays a role in the rapid nongenomic signaling events widely observed following stimulation of cells and tissues with estrogen. This receptor has been shown to play a role in diverse biological processes, including bone and nervous system development, metabolism, cognition, male fertility and uterine function.
GPNMB	The protein encoded by this gene is a type I transmembrane glycoprotein which shows homology to the pMEL17 precursor, a melanocyte-specific protein. GPNMB shows expression in the lowly metastatic human melanoma cell lines and xenografts but does not show expression in the highly metastatic cell lines. GPNMB may be involved in growth delay and reduction of metastatic potential. Two transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been found for this gene.
GPR119	This gene encodes a member of the rhodopsin subfamily of G-protein-coupled receptors that is expressed in the pancreas and gastrointestinal tract. The encoded protein is activated by lipid amides including lysophosphatidylcholine and oleoylethanolamide and may be involved in glucose homeostasis. This protein is a potential drug target in the treatment of type 2 diabetes.
GPR12	Promotes neurite outgrowth and blocks myelin inhibition in neurons (By similarity). Receptor with constitutive G(s) signaling activity that stimulates cyclic AMP production.
GPR132	This gene encodes a member of the guanine nucleotide-binding protein (G protein)-coupled receptor (GPCR) superfamily. The receptors are seven-pass transmembrane proteins that respond to extracellular cues and activate intracellular signal transduction pathways. This protein was reported to be a receptor for lysophosphatidylcholine action, but PubMedID: 15653487 retracts this finding and instead suggests this protein to be an effector of lysophosphatidylcholine action. This protein may have proton-sensing activity and may be a receptor for oxidized free fatty acids. Alternative splicing results in multiple transcript variants.
GPR135	Orphan receptor. Has spontaneous activity for beta-arrestin recruitment .
GPR139	This gene encodes a member of the rhodopsin family of G-protein-coupled receptors. The encoded protein is almost exclusively expressed in the central nervous system. L-tryptophan and L-phenylalanine may act as the physiologic ligands of the encoded protein. Alternative splicing results in multiple transcript variants.
GPR142	GPR142 is a member of the rhodopsin family of G protein-coupled receptors (GPRs) (Fredriksson et al., 2003
GPR160	Orphan receptor.
GPR17	Dual specificity receptor for uracil nucleotides and cysteinyl leukotrienes (CysLTs). Signals through G(i) and inhibition of adenylyl cyclase. May mediate brain damage by nucleotides and CysLTs following ischemia.
GPR174	This gene encodes a protein belonging to the G protein-coupled receptor superfamily. These proteins are characterized by the presence of seven alpha-helical transmembrane domains, and they activate or interact with various endogenous or exogenous ligands, including neurotransmitters, hormones, and odorant and taste substances. This family member is classified as an orphan receptor because the cognate ligand has not been identified.
GPR18	Receptor for endocannabinoid N-arachidonyl glycine (NAGly) .
GPR182	Adrenomedullin is a potent vasodilator peptide that exerts major effects on cardiovascular function. This gene encodes a seven-transmembrane protein that belongs to the family 1 of G-protein coupled receptors. Studies of the rat counterpart suggest that the encoded protein may function as a receptor for adrenomedullin.
GPR183	This gene was identified by the up-regulation of its expression upon Epstein-Barr virus infection of primary B lymphocytes. This gene is predicted to encode a G protein-coupled receptor that is most closely related to the thrombin receptor. Expression of this gene was detected in B-lymphocyte cell lines and lymphoid tissues but not in T-lymphocyte cell lines or peripheral blood T lymphocytes. The function of this gene is unknown.
GPR34	G protein-coupled receptors (GPCRs), such as GPR34, are integral membrane proteins containing 7 putative transmembrane domains (TMs). These proteins mediate signals to the interior of the cell via activation of heterotrimeric G proteins that in turn activate various effector proteins, ultimately resulting in a physiologic response.
GPR35	Acts as a receptor for kynurenic acid, an intermediate in the tryptophan metabolic pathway. The activity of this receptor is mediated by G-proteins that elicit calcium mobilization and inositol phosphate production through G(qi/o) proteins.
GPR37L1	G-protein coupled receptor .
GPR39	This gene is a member of the ghrelin receptor family and encodes a rhodopsin-type G-protein-coupled receptor (GPCR). The encoded protein is involved in zinc-dependent signaling in epithelial tissue in intestines, prostate and salivary glands. The protein may also be involved in the pathophysiology of depression.
GPR4	Proton-sensing receptor coupled to several G-proteins, including G(s), G(13) and G(q)/G(11) proteins, leading to cAMP production.
GPR50	This gene product belongs to the G-protein coupled receptor 1 family. Even though this protein shares similarity with the melatonin receptors, it does not bind melatonin, however, it inhibits melatonin receptor 1A function through heterodimerization. Polymorphic variants of this gene have been associated with bipolar affective disorder in women.
GPR52	Members of the G protein-coupled receptor (GPR) family play important roles in signal transduction from the external environment to the inside of the cell.
GPR55	This gene belongs to the G-protein-coupled receptor superfamily. The encoded integral membrane protein is a likely cannabinoid receptor. It may be involved in several physiological and pathological processes by activating a variety of signal transduction pathways.
GPR6	Orphan receptor with constitutive G(s) signaling activity that activate cyclic AMP. Promotes neurite outgrowth and blocks myelin inhibition in neurons (By similarity).
GPR65	Receptor for the glycosphingolipid psychosine (PSY) and several related glycosphingolipids .
GPR68	The protein encoded by this gene is a G protein-coupled receptor for sphingosylphosphorylcholine. The encoded protein is a proton-sensing receptor, inactive at pH 7.8 but active at pH 6.8. Mutations in this gene are a cause of amelogenesis imperfecta.
GPR84	Receptor for medium-chain free fatty acid (FFA) with carbon chain lengths of C9 to C14. Capric acid (C10:0), undecanoic acid (C11:0) and lauric acid (C12:0) are the most potent agonists. Not activated by short-chain and long-chain saturated and unsaturated FFAs. Activation by medium-chain free fatty acid is coupled to a pertussis toxin sensitive G(i/o) protein pathway. May have important roles in processes from fatty acid metabolism to regulation of the immune system.
GPR88	The protein encoded by this gene is a G protein-coupled receptor found almost exclusively in the striatum, a brain structure that controls motor function and cognition. Defects in this gene have been associated with chorea, speech delay, and learning difficulties, as well as some neuropsychiatric disorders.
GPT	This gene encodes cytosolic alanine aminotransaminase 1 (ALT1); also known as glutamate-pyruvate transaminase 1. This enzyme catalyzes the reversible transamination between alanine and 2-oxoglutarate to generate pyruvate and glutamate and, therefore, plays a key role in the intermediary metabolism of glucose and amino acids. Serum activity levels of this enzyme are routinely used as a biomarker of liver injury caused by drug toxicity, infection, alcohol, and steatosis. A related gene on chromosome 16 encodes a putative mitochondrial alanine aminotransaminase.
GRB10	The product of this gene belongs to a small family of adapter proteins that are known to interact with a number of receptor tyrosine kinases and signaling molecules. This gene encodes a growth factor receptor-binding protein that interacts with insulin receptors and insulin-like growth-factor receptors. Overexpression of some isoforms of the encoded protein inhibits tyrosine kinase activity and results in growth suppression. This gene is imprinted in a highly isoform- and tissue-specific manner, with expression observed from the paternal allele in the brain, and from the maternal allele in the placental trophoblasts. Alternatively spliced transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been identified.
GRB2	The protein encoded by this gene binds the epidermal growth factor receptor and contains one SH2 domain and two SH3 domains. Its two SH3 domains direct complex formation with proline-rich regions of other proteins, and its SH2 domain binds tyrosine phosphorylated sequences. This gene is similar to the Sem5 gene of C.elegans, which is involved in the signal transduction pathway. Two alternatively spliced transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been found for this gene.
GRB7	The product of this gene belongs to a small family of adapter proteins that are known to interact with a number of receptor tyrosine kinases and signaling molecules. This gene encodes a growth factor receptor-binding protein that interacts with epidermal growth factor receptor (EGFR) and ephrin receptors. The protein plays a role in the integrin signaling pathway and cell migration by binding with focal adhesion kinase (FAK). Several transcript variants encoding two different isoforms have been found for this gene.
GRIA1	Glutamate receptors are the predominant excitatory neurotransmitter receptors in the mammalian brain and are activated in a variety of normal neurophysiologic processes. These receptors are heteromeric protein complexes with multiple subunits, each possessing transmembrane regions, and all arranged to form a ligand-gated ion channel. The classification of glutamate receptors is based on their activation by different pharmacologic agonists. This gene belongs to a family of alpha-amino-3-hydroxy-5-methyl-4-isoxazole propionate (AMPA) receptors. Alternatively spliced transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been found for this gene.
GRIA2	Glutamate receptors are the predominant excitatory neurotransmitter receptors in the mammalian brain and are activated in a variety of normal neurophysiologic processes. This gene product belongs to a family of glutamate receptors that are sensitive to alpha-amino-3-hydroxy-5-methyl-4-isoxazole propionate (AMPA), and function as ligand-activated cation channels. These channels are assembled from 4 related subunits, GRIA1-4. The subunit encoded by this gene (GRIA2) is subject to RNA editing (CAG->CGG; Q->R) within the second transmembrane domain, which is thought to render the channel impermeable to Ca(2+). Human and animal studies suggest that pre-mRNA editing is essential for brain function, and defective GRIA2 RNA editing at the Q/R site may be relevant to amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS) etiology. Alternative splicing, resulting in transcript variants encoding different isoforms, (including the flip and flop isoforms that vary in their signal transduction properties), has been noted for this gene.
GRIA3	Glutamate receptors are the predominant excitatory neurotransmitter receptors in the mammalian brain and are activated in a variety of normal neurophysiologic processes. These receptors are heteromeric protein complexes composed of multiple subunits, arranged to form ligand-gated ion channels. The classification of glutamate receptors is based on their activation by different pharmacologic agonists. The subunit encoded by this gene belongs to a family of AMPA (alpha-amino-3-hydroxy-5-methyl-4-isoxazole propionate)-sensitive glutamate receptors, and is subject to RNA editing (AGA->GGA; R->G). Alternative splicing at this locus results in different isoforms, which may vary in their signal transduction properties.
GRIA4	Glutamate receptors are the predominant excitatory neurotransmitter receptors in the mammalian brain and are activated in a variety of normal neurophysiologic processes. These receptors are heteromeric protein complexes composed of multiple subunits, arranged to form ligand-gated ion channels. The classification of glutamate receptors is based on their activation by different pharmacologic agonists. The subunit encoded by this gene belongs to a family of AMPA (alpha-amino-3-hydroxy-5-methyl-4-isoxazole propionate)-sensitive glutamate receptors, and is subject to RNA editing (AGA->GGA; R->G). Alternative splicing of this gene results in transcript variants encoding different isoforms, which may vary in their signal transduction properties. Some haplotypes of this gene show a positive association with schizophrenia.
GRIK1	Glutamate receptors are the predominant excitatory neurotransmitter receptors in the mammalian brain and are activated in a variety of normal neurophysiologic processes. This gene product belongs to the kainate family of glutamate receptors, which are composed of four subunits and function as ligand-activated ion channels. The subunit encoded by this gene is subject to RNA editing (CAG->CGG; Q->R) within the second transmembrane domain, which is thought to alter the properties of ion flow. Alternative splicing, resulting in transcript variants encoding different isoforms, has been noted for this gene.
GRIK2	Glutamate receptors are the predominant excitatory neurotransmitter receptors in the mammalian brain and are activated in a variety of normal neurophysiologic processes. This gene product belongs to the kainate family of glutamate receptors, which are composed of four subunits and function as ligand-activated ion channels. The subunit encoded by this gene is subject to RNA editing at multiple sites within the first and second transmembrane domains, which is thought to alter the structure and function of the receptor complex. Alternatively spliced transcript variants encoding different isoforms have also been described for this gene. Mutations in this gene have been associated with autosomal recessive cognitive disability.
GRIK3	Glutamate receptors are the predominant excitatory neurotransmitter receptors in the mammalian brain and are activated in a variety of normal neurophysiologic processes. This gene product belongs to the kainate family of glutamate receptors, which are composed of four subunits and function as ligand-activated ion channels. It is not certain if the subunit encoded by this gene is subject to RNA editing as the other 2 family members (GRIK1 and GRIK2). A Ser310Ala polymorphism has been associated with schizophrenia, and there are conflicting reports of its association with the pathogenesis of delirium tremens in alcoholics.
GRIK5	This gene encodes a protein that belongs to the glutamate-gated ionic channel family. Glutamate functions as the major excitatory neurotransmitter in the central nervous system through activation of ligand-gated ion channels and G protein-coupled membrane receptors. The protein encoded by this gene forms functional heteromeric kainate-preferring ionic channels with the subunits encoded by related gene family members. Alternative splicing results in multiple transcript variants.
GRIN1	The protein encoded by this gene is a critical subunit of N-methyl-D-aspartate receptors, members of the glutamate receptor channel superfamily which are heteromeric protein complexes with multiple subunits arranged to form a ligand-gated ion channel. These subunits play a key role in the plasticity of synapses, which is believed to underlie memory and learning. Cell-specific factors are thought to control expression of different isoforms, possibly contributing to the functional diversity of the subunits. Alternatively spliced transcript variants have been described.
GRIN2A	This gene encodes a member of the glutamate-gated ion channel protein family. The encoded protein is an N-methyl-D-aspartate (NMDA) receptor subunit. NMDA receptors are both ligand-gated and voltage-dependent, and are involved in long-term potentiation, an activity-dependent increase in the efficiency of synaptic transmission thought to underlie certain kinds of memory and learning. These receptors are permeable to calcium ions, and activation results in a calcium influx into post-synaptic cells, which results in the activation of several signaling cascades. Disruption of this gene is associated with focal epilepsy and speech disorder with or without cognitive disability. Alternative splicing results in multiple transcript variants.
GRIN2B	This gene encodes a member of the N-methyl-D-aspartate (NMDA) receptor family within the ionotropic glutamate receptor superfamily. The encoded protein is a subunit of the NMDA receptor ion channel which acts as an agonist binding site for glutamate. The NMDA receptors mediate a slow calcium-permeable component of excitatory synaptic transmission in the central nervous system. The NMDA receptors are heterotetramers of seven genetically encoded, differentially expressed subunits including NR1 (GRIN1), NR2 (GRIN2A, GRIN2B, GRIN2C, or GRIN2D) and NR3 (GRIN3A or GRIN3B). The early expression of this gene in development suggests a role in brain development, circuit formation, synaptic plasticity, and cellular migration and differentiation. Naturally occurring mutations within this gene are associated with neurodevelopmental disorders including autism spectrum disorder, attention deficit hyperactivity disorder, epilepsy, and schizophrenia.
GRIN2C	This gene encodes a subunit of the N-methyl-D-aspartate (NMDA) receptor, which is a subtype of ionotropic glutamate receptor. NMDA receptors are found in the central nervous system, are permeable to cations and have an important role in physiological processes such as learning, memory, and synaptic development. The receptor is a tetramer of different subunits (typically heterodimer of subunit 1 with one or more of subunits 2A-D), forming a channel that is permeable to calcium, potassium, and sodium, and whose properties are determined by subunit composition. Alterations in the subunit composition of the receptor are associated with pathophysiological conditions such as Parkinson's disease, Alzheimer's disease, depression, and schizophrenia. Alternative splicing results in multiple transcript variants.
GRIN2D	N-methyl-D-aspartate (NMDA) receptors are a class of ionotropic glutamate receptors. NMDA channel has been shown to be involved in long-term potentiation, an activity-dependent increase in the efficiency of synaptic transmission thought to underlie certain kinds of memory and learning. NMDA receptor channels are heteromers composed of the key receptor subunit NMDAR1 (GRIN1) and 1 or more of the 4 NMDAR2 subunits: NMDAR2A (GRIN2A), NMDAR2B (GRIN2B), NMDAR2C (GRIN2C), and NMDAR2D (GRIN2D).
GRIN3A	This gene encodes a subunit of the N-methyl-D-aspartate (NMDA) receptors, which belong to the superfamily of glutamate-regulated ion channels, and function in physiological and pathological processes in the central nervous system. This subunit shows greater than 90% identity to the corresponding subunit in rat. Studies in the knockout mouse deficient in this subunit suggest that this gene may be involved in the development of synaptic elements by modulating NMDA receptor activity.
GRK4	This gene encodes a member of the guanine nucleotide-binding protein (G protein)-coupled receptor kinase subfamily of the Ser/Thr protein kinase family. The protein phosphorylates the activated forms of G protein-coupled receptors thus initiating its deactivation. This gene has been linked to both genetic and acquired hypertension. Several transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been found for this gene.
GRK5	This gene encodes a member of the guanine nucleotide-binding protein (G protein)-coupled receptor kinase subfamily of the Ser/Thr protein kinase family. The protein phosphorylates the activated forms of G protein-coupled receptors thus initiating their deactivation. It has also been shown to play a role in regulating the motility of polymorphonuclear leukocytes (PMNs).
GRK6	This gene encodes a member of the guanine nucleotide-binding protein (G protein)-coupled receptor kinase subfamily of the Ser/Thr protein kinase family. The protein phosphorylates the activated forms of G protein-coupled receptors thus initiating their deactivation. Several transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been described for this gene.
GRK7	This gene encodes a member of the guanine nucleotide-binding protein (G protein)-coupled receptor kinase subfamily of the Ser/Thr protein kinase family. It is specifically expressed in the retina and the encoded protein has been shown to phosphorylate cone opsins and initiate their deactivation.
GRM1	This gene encodes a metabotropic glutamate receptor that functions by activating phospholipase C. L-glutamate is the major excitatory neurotransmitter in the central nervous system and activates both ionotropic and metabotropic glutamate receptors. Glutamatergic neurotransmission is involved in most aspects of normal brain function and can be perturbed in many neuropathologic conditions. The canonical alpha isoform of the encoded protein is a disulfide-linked homodimer whose activity is mediated by a G-protein-coupled phosphatidylinositol-calcium second messenger system. This gene may be associated with many disease states, including schizophrenia, bipolar disorder, depression, and breast cancer. Alternative splicing results in multiple transcript variants encoding different isoforms.
GRM2	L-glutamate is the major excitatory neurotransmitter in the central nervous system and activates both ionotropic and metabotropic glutamate receptors. Glutamatergic neurotransmission is involved in most aspects of normal brain function and can be perturbed in many neuropathologic conditions. The metabotropic glutamate receptors are a family of G protein-coupled receptors, that have been divided into 3 groups on the basis of sequence homology, putative signal transduction mechanisms, and pharmacologic properties. Group I includes GRM1 and GRM5 and these receptors have been shown to activate phospholipase C. Group II includes GRM2 and GRM3 while Group III includes GRM4, GRM6, GRM7 and GRM8. Group II and III receptors are linked to the inhibition of the cyclic AMP cascade but differ in their agonist selectivities. Several transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been found for this gene.
GRM3	L-glutamate is the major excitatory neurotransmitter in the central nervous system and activates both ionotropic and metabotropic glutamate receptors. Glutamatergic neurotransmission is involved in most aspects of normal brain function and can be perturbed in many neuropathologic conditions. The metabotropic glutamate receptors are a family of G protein-coupled receptors, that have been divided into 3 groups on the basis of sequence homology, putative signal transduction mechanisms, and pharmacologic properties. Group I includes GRM1 and GRM5 and these receptors have been shown to activate phospholipase C. Group II includes GRM2 and GRM3 while Group III includes GRM4, GRM6, GRM7 and GRM8. Group II and III receptors are linked to the inhibition of the cyclic AMP cascade but differ in their agonist selectivities.
GRM4	L-glutamate is the major excitatory neurotransmitter in the central nervous system and activates both ionotropic and metabotropic glutamate receptors. Glutamatergic neurotransmission is involved in most aspects of normal brain function and can be perturbed in many neuropathologic conditions. The metabotropic glutamate receptors are a family of G protein-coupled receptors, that have been divided into 3 groups on the basis of sequence homology, putative signal transduction mechanisms, and pharmacologic properties. Group I includes GRM1 and GRM5 and these receptors have been shown to activate phospholipase C. Group II includes GRM2 and GRM3 while Group III includes GRM4, GRM6, GRM7 and GRM8. Group II and III receptors are linked to the inhibition of the cyclic AMP cascade but differ in their agonist selectivities. Several transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been found for this gene.
GRM5	This gene encodes a member of the G-protein coupled receptor 3 protein family. The encoded protein is a metabatropic glutamate receptor, whose signaling activates a phosphatidylinositol-calcium second messenger system. This protein may be involved in the regulation of neural network activity and synaptic plasticity. Glutamatergic neurotransmission is involved in most aspects of normal brain function and can be perturbed in many neuropathologic conditions. A pseudogene of this gene has been defined on chromosome 11. Alternative splicing results in multiple transcript variants.
GRM6	L-glutamate is the major excitatory neurotransmitter in the central nervous system and activates both ionotropic and metabotropic glutamate receptors. Glutamatergic neurotransmission is involved in most aspects of normal brain function and can be perturbed in many neuropathologic conditions. The metabotropic glutamate receptors are a family of G protein-coupled receptors, that have been divided into 3 groups on the basis of sequence homology, putative signal transduction mechanisms, and pharmacologic properties. Group I includes GRM1 and GRM5 and these receptors have been shown to activate phospholipase C. Group II includes GRM2 and GRM3 while Group III includes GRM4, GRM6, GRM7 and GRM8. Group II and III receptors are linked to the inhibition of the cyclic AMP cascade but differ in their agonist selectivities. Mutations in this gene result in congenital stationary night blindness type 1B.
GRM7	L-glutamate is the major excitatory neurotransmitter in the central nervous system, and it activates both ionotropic and metabotropic glutamate receptors. Glutamatergic neurotransmission is involved in most aspects of normal brain function and can be perturbed in many neuropathologic conditions. The metabotropic glutamate receptors are a family of G protein-coupled receptors that have been divided into three groups on the basis of sequence homology, putative signal transduction mechanisms, and pharmacologic properties. Group I includes GRM1 and GRM5, and these receptors have been shown to activate phospholipase C. Group II includes GRM2 and GRM3, while Group III includes GRM4, GRM6, GRM7 and GRM8. Group II and III receptors are linked to the inhibition of the cyclic AMP cascade but differ in their agonist selectivities. Multiple transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been found for this gene.
GRM8	L-glutamate is the major excitatory neurotransmitter in the central nervous system and activates both ionotropic and metabotropic glutamate receptors. Glutamatergic neurotransmission is involved in most aspects of normal brain function and can be perturbed in many neuropathologic conditions. The metabotropic glutamate receptors are a family of G protein-coupled receptors, that have been divided into 3 groups on the basis of sequence homology, putative signal transduction mechanisms, and pharmacologic properties. Group I includes GRM1 and GRM5 and these receptors have been shown to activate phospholipase C. Group II includes GRM2 and GRM3 while Group III includes GRM4, GRM6, GRM7 and GRM8. Group II and III receptors are linked to the inhibition of the cyclic AMP cascade but differ in their agonist selectivities. Alternatively spliced transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been described for this gene.
GRPR	Gastrin-releasing peptide (GRP) regulates numerous functions of the gastrointestinal and central nervous systems, including release of gastrointestinal hormones, smooth muscle cell contraction, and epithelial cell proliferation and is a potent mitogen for neoplastic tissues. The effects of GRP are mediated through the gastrin-releasing peptide receptor. This receptor is a glycosylated, 7-transmembrane G-protein coupled receptor that activates the phospholipase C signaling pathway. The receptor is aberrantly expressed in numerous cancers such as those of the lung, colon, and prostate. An individual with autism and multiple exostoses was found to have a balanced translocation between chromosome 8 and a chromosome X breakpoint located within the gastrin-releasing peptide receptor gene.
GSAP	Accumulation of neurotoxic amyloid-beta is a major hallmark of Alzheimer disease (AD; MIM 104300). Formation of amyloid-beta is catalyzed by gamma-secretase (see PSEN1; MIM 104311), a protease with numerous substrates. PION, or GSAP, selectively increases amyloid-beta production through a mechanism involving its interaction with both gamma-secretase and its substrate, the amyloid-beta precursor protein (APP; MIM 104760) C-terminal fragment (APP-CTF) (He et al., 2010
GSK3A	This gene encodes a multifunctional Ser/Thr protein kinase that is implicated in the control of several regulatory proteins including glycogen synthase, and transcription factors, such as JUN. It also plays a role in the WNT and PI3K signaling pathways, as well as regulates the production of beta-amyloid peptides associated with Alzheimer's disease.
GSK3B	The protein encoded by this gene is a serine-threonine kinase belonging to the glycogen synthase kinase subfamily. It is a negative regulator of glucose homeostasis and is involved in energy metabolism, inflammation, ER-stress, mitochondrial dysfunction, and apoptotic pathways. Defects in this gene have been associated with Parkinson disease and Alzheimer disease.
GSR	This gene encodes a member of the class-I pyridine nucleotide-disulfide oxidoreductase family. This enzyme is a homodimeric flavoprotein. It is a central enzyme of cellular antioxidant defense, and reduces oxidized glutathione disulfide (GSSG) to the sulfhydryl form GSH, which is an important cellular antioxidant. Rare mutations in this gene result in hereditary glutathione reductase deficiency. Multiple alternatively spliced transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been found.
GSTA1	This gene encodes a member of a family of enzymes that function to add glutathione to target electrophilic compounds, including carcinogens, therapeutic drugs, environmental toxins, and products of oxidative stress. This action is an important step in detoxification of these compounds. This subfamily of enzymes has a particular role in protecting cells from reactive oxygen species and the products of peroxidation. Polymorphisms in this gene influence the ability of individuals to metabolize different drugs. This gene is located in a cluster of similar genes and pseudogenes on chromosome 6. Alternative splicing results in multiple transcript variants.
GSTA2	Cytosolic and membrane-bound forms of glutathione S-transferase are encoded by two distinct supergene families. These enzymes function in the detoxification of electrophilic compounds, including carcinogens, therapeutic drugs, environmental toxins and products of oxidative stress, by conjugation with glutathione. The genes encoding these enzymes are known to be highly polymorphic. These genetic variations can change an individual's susceptibility to carcinogens and toxins as well as affect the toxicity and efficacy of some drugs. At present, eight distinct classes of the soluble cytoplasmic mammalian glutathione S-transferases have been identified: alpha, kappa, mu, omega, pi, sigma, theta and zeta. This gene encodes a glutathione S-tranferase belonging to the alpha class. The alpha class genes, located in a cluster mapped to chromosome 6, are the most abundantly expressed glutathione S-transferases in liver. In addition to metabolizing bilirubin and certain anti-cancer drugs in the liver, the alpha class of these enzymes exhibit glutathione peroxidase activity thereby protecting the cells from reactive oxygen species and the products of peroxidation.
GSTA3	Cytosolic and membrane-bound forms of glutathione S-transferase are encoded by two distinct supergene families. These enzymes are involved in cellular defense against toxic, carcinogenic, and pharmacologically active electrophilic compounds. At present, eight distinct classes of the soluble cytoplasmic mammalian glutathione S-transferases have been identified: alpha, kappa, mu, omega, pi, sigma, theta and zeta. This gene encodes a glutathione S-tranferase belonging to the alpha class genes that are located in a cluster mapped to chromosome 6. Genes of the alpha class are highly related and encode enzymes with glutathione peroxidase activity. However, during evolution, this alpha class gene diverged accumulating mutations in the active site that resulted in differences in substrate specificity and catalytic activity. The enzyme encoded by this gene catalyzes the double bond isomerization of precursors for progesterone and testosterone during the biosynthesis of steroid hormones. An additional transcript variant has been identified, but its full length sequence has not been determined.
GSTA4	Cytosolic and membrane-bound forms of glutathione S-transferase are encoded by two distinct supergene families. These enzymes are involved in cellular defense against toxic, carcinogenic, and pharmacologically active electrophilic compounds. At present, eight distinct classes of the soluble cytoplasmic mammalian glutathione S-transferases have been identified: alpha, kappa, mu, omega, pi, sigma, theta and zeta. This gene encodes a glutathione S-tranferase belonging to the alpha class. The alpha class genes, which are located in a cluster on chromosome 6, are highly related and encode enzymes with glutathione peroxidase activity that function in the detoxification of lipid peroxidation products. Reactive electrophiles produced by oxidative metabolism have been linked to a number of degenerative diseases including Parkinson's disease, Alzheimer's disease, cataract formation, and atherosclerosis.
GSTK1	This gene encodes a member of the kappa class of the glutathione transferase superfamily of enzymes that function in cellular detoxification. The encoded protein is localized to the peroxisome and catalyzes the conjugation of glutathione to a wide range of hydrophobic substates facilitating the removal of these compounds from cells. Alternative splicing results in multiple transcript variants.
GSTM1	Cytosolic and membrane-bound forms of glutathione S-transferase are encoded by two distinct supergene families. At present, eight distinct classes of the soluble cytoplasmic mammalian glutathione S-transferases have been identified: alpha, kappa, mu, omega, pi, sigma, theta and zeta. This gene encodes a glutathione S-transferase that belongs to the mu class. The mu class of enzymes functions in the detoxification of electrophilic compounds, including carcinogens, therapeutic drugs, environmental toxins and products of oxidative stress, by conjugation with glutathione. The genes encoding the mu class of enzymes are organized in a gene cluster on chromosome 1p13.3 and are known to be highly polymorphic. These genetic variations can change an individual's susceptibility to carcinogens and toxins as well as affect the toxicity and efficacy of certain drugs. Null mutations of this class mu gene have been linked with an increase in a number of cancers, likely due to an increased susceptibility to environmental toxins and carcinogens. Multiple protein isoforms are encoded by transcript variants of this gene.
GSTM2	Cytosolic and membrane-bound forms of glutathione S-transferase are encoded by two distinct supergene families. At present, eight distinct classes of the soluble cytoplasmic mammalian glutathione S-transferases have been identified: alpha, kappa, mu, omega, pi, sigma, theta and zeta. This gene encodes a glutathione S-transferase that belongs to the mu class. The mu class of enzymes functions in the detoxification of electrophilic compounds, including carcinogens, therapeutic drugs, environmental toxins and products of oxidative stress, by conjugation with glutathione. The genes encoding the mu class of enzymes are organized in a gene cluster on chromosome 1p13.3 and are known to be highly polymorphic. These genetic variations can change an individual's susceptibility to carcinogens and toxins as well as affect the toxicity and efficacy of certain drugs.
GSTM3	Cytosolic and membrane-bound forms of glutathione S-transferase are encoded by two distinct supergene families. At present, eight distinct classes of the soluble cytoplasmic mammalian glutathione S-transferases have been identified: alpha, kappa, mu, omega, pi, sigma, theta and zeta. This gene encodes a glutathione S-transferase that belongs to the mu class. The mu class of enzymes functions in the detoxification of electrophilic compounds, including carcinogens, therapeutic drugs, environmental toxins and products of oxidative stress, by conjugation with glutathione. The genes encoding the mu class of enzymes are organized in a gene cluster on chromosome 1p13.3 and are known to be highly polymorphic. These genetic variations can change an individual's susceptibility to carcinogens and toxins as well as affect the toxicity and efficacy of certain drugs. Mutations of this class mu gene have been linked with a slight increase in a number of cancers, likely due to exposure with environmental toxins. Alternative splicing results in multiple transcript variants.
GSTM4	Cytosolic and membrane-bound forms of glutathione S-transferase are encoded by two distinct supergene families. At present, eight distinct classes of the soluble cytoplasmic mammalian glutathione S-transferases have been identified: alpha, kappa, mu, omega, pi, sigma, theta and zeta. This gene encodes a glutathione S-transferase that belongs to the mu class. The mu class of enzymes functions in the detoxification of electrophilic compounds, including carcinogens, therapeutic drugs, environmental toxins and products of oxidative stress, by conjugation with glutathione. The genes encoding the mu class of enzymes are organized in a gene cluster on chromosome 1p13.3 and are known to be highly polymorphic. These genetic variations can change an individual's susceptibility to carcinogens and toxins as well as affect the toxicity and efficacy of certain drugs. Diversification of these genes has occurred in regions encoding substrate-binding domains, as well as in tissue expression patterns, to accommodate an increasing number of foreign compounds. Multiple transcript variants, each encoding a distinct protein isoform, have been identified.
GSTM5	Cytosolic and membrane-bound forms of glutathione S-transferase are encoded by two distinct supergene families. At present, eight distinct classes of the soluble cytoplasmic mammalian glutathione S-transferases have been identified: alpha, kappa, mu, omega, pi, sigma, theta and zeta. This gene encodes a glutathione S-transferase that belongs to the mu class. The mu class of enzymes functions in the detoxification of electrophilic compounds, including carcinogens, therapeutic drugs, environmental toxins and products of oxidative stress, by conjugation with glutathione. The genes encoding the mu class of enzymes are organized in a gene cluster on chromosome 1p13.3 and are known to be highly polymorphic. These genetic variations can change an individual's susceptibility to carcinogens and toxins as well as affect the toxicity and efficacy of certain drugs. Diversification of these genes has occurred in regions encoding substrate-binding domains, as well as in tissue expression patterns, to accommodate an increasing number of foreign compounds.
GSTO1	The protein encoded by this gene is an omega class glutathione S-transferase (GST) with glutathione-dependent thiol transferase and dehydroascorbate reductase activities. GSTs are involved in the metabolism of xenobiotics and carcinogens. The encoded protein acts as a homodimer and is found in the cytoplasm. Three transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been found for this gene.
GSTO2	The protein encoded by this gene is an omega class glutathione S-transferase (GST). GSTs are involved in the metabolism of xenobiotics and carcinogens. Four transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been found for this gene.
GSTP1	Glutathione S-transferases (GSTs) are a family of enzymes that play an important role in detoxification by catalyzing the conjugation of many hydrophobic and electrophilic compounds with reduced glutathione. Based on their biochemical, immunologic, and structural properties, the soluble GSTs are categorized into 4 main classes: alpha, mu, pi, and theta. This GST family member is a polymorphic gene encoding active, functionally different GSTP1 variant proteins that are thought to function in xenobiotic metabolism and play a role in susceptibility to cancer, and other diseases.
GSTT1	The protein encoded by this gene, glutathione S-transferase (GST) theta 1 (GSTT1), is a member of a superfamily of proteins that catalyze the conjugation of reduced glutathione to a variety of electrophilic and hydrophobic compounds. Human GSTs can be divided into five main classes: alpha, mu, pi, theta, and zeta. The theta class includes GSTT1, GSTT2, and GSTT2B. GSTT1 and GSTT2/GSTT2B share 55% amino acid sequence identity and may play a role in human carcinogenesis. The GSTT1 gene is haplotype-specific and is absent from 38% of the population. Alternative splicing of this gene results in multiple transcript variants.
GSTZ1	This gene is a member of the glutathione S-transferase (GSTs) super-family which encodes multifunctional enzymes important in the detoxification of electrophilic molecules, including carcinogens, mutagens, and several therapeutic drugs, by conjugation with glutathione. This enzyme catalyzes the conversion of maleylacetoacetate to fumarylacetoacatate, which is one of the steps in the phenylalanine/tyrosine degradation pathway. Deficiency of a similar gene in mouse causes oxidative stress. Several transcript variants of this gene encode multiple protein isoforms.
GTF2A1	Accurate transcription initiation on TATA-containing class II genes involves the ordered assembly of RNA polymerase II (POLR2A; MIM 180660) and several general initiation factors (summarized by DeJong and Roeder, 1993
GUCY2C	This gene encodes a transmembrane protein that functions as a receptor for endogenous peptides guanylin and uroguanylin, and the heat-stable E. coli enterotoxin. The encoded protein activates the cystic fibrosis transmembrane conductance regulator. Mutations in this gene are associated with familial diarrhea (autosomal dominant) and meconium ileus (autosomal recessive).
GUK1	The protein encoded by this gene is an enzyme that catalyzes the transfer of a phosphate group from ATP to guanosine monophosphate (GMP) to form guanosine diphosphate (GDP). The encoded protein is thought to be a good target for cancer chemotherapy. Several transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been found for this gene.
GUSB	This gene encodes a hydrolase that degrades glycosaminoglycans, including heparan sulfate, dermatan sulfate, and chondroitin-4,6-sulfate. The enzyme forms a homotetramer that is localized to the lysosome. Mutations in this gene result in mucopolysaccharidosis type VII. Alternative splicing results in multiple transcript variants. There are many pseudogenes of this locus in the human genome.
GYS1	The protein encoded by this gene catalyzes the addition of glucose monomers to the growing glycogen molecule through the formation of alpha-1,4-glycoside linkages. Mutations in this gene are associated with muscle glycogen storage disease. Alternatively spliced transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been found for this gene.
GZMA	Cytolytic T lymphocytes (CTL) and natural killer (NK) cells share the remarkable ability to recognize, bind, and lyse specific target cells. They are thought to protect their host by lysing cells bearing on their surface 'nonself' antigens, usually peptides or proteins resulting from infection by intracellular pathogens. The protein described here is a T cell- and natural killer cell-specific serine protease that may function as a common component necessary for lysis of target cells by cytotoxic T lymphocytes and natural killer cells.
GZMB	This gene encodes a member of the granzyme subfamily of proteins, part of the peptidase S1 family of serine proteases. The encoded preproprotein is secreted by natural killer (NK) cells and cytotoxic T lymphocytes (CTLs) and proteolytically processed to generate the active protease, which induces target cell apoptosis. This protein also processes cytokines and degrades extracellular matrix proteins, and these roles are implicated in chronic inflammation and wound healing. Expression of this gene may be elevated in human patients with cardiac fibrosis.
GZMK	This gene product is a member of a group of related serine proteases from the cytoplasmic granules of cytotoxic lymphocytes. Cytolytic T lymphocytes (CTL) and natural killer (NK) cells share the remarkable ability to recognize, bind, and lyse specific target cells. They are thought to protect their host by lysing cells bearing on their surface 'nonself' antigens, usually peptides or proteins resulting from infection by intracellular pathogens. The protein described here lacks consensus sequences for N-glycosylation present in other granzymes.
H1F0	Histones are basic nuclear proteins that are responsible for the nucleosome structure of the chromosomal fiber in eukaryotes. Nucleosomes consist of approximately 146 bp of DNA wrapped around a histone octamer composed of pairs of each of the four core histones (H2A, H2B, H3, and H4). The chromatin fiber is further compacted through the interaction of a linker histone, H1, with the DNA between the nucleosomes to form higher order chromatin structures. This gene is intronless and encodes a replication-independent histone that is a member of the histone H1 family.
HAAO	3-Hydroxyanthranilate 3,4-dioxygenase is a monomeric cytosolic protein belonging to the family of intramolecular dioxygenases containing nonheme ferrous iron. It is widely distributed in peripheral organs, such as liver and kidney, and is also present in low amounts in the central nervous system. HAAO catalyzes the synthesis of quinolinic acid (QUIN) from 3-hydroxyanthranilic acid. QUIN is an excitotoxin whose toxicity is mediated by its ability to activate glutamate N-methyl-D-aspartate receptors. Increased cerebral levels of QUIN may participate in the pathogenesis of neurologic and inflammatory disorders. HAAO has been suggested to play a role in disorders associated with altered tissue levels of QUIN.
HAGH	The enzyme encoded by this gene is classified as a thiolesterase and is responsible for the hydrolysis of S-lactoyl-glutathione to reduced glutathione and D-lactate. Three transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been found for this gene.
HAL	Histidine ammonia-lyase is a cytosolic enzyme catalyzing the first reaction in histidine catabolism, the nonoxidative deamination of L-histidine to trans-urocanic acid. Histidine ammonia-lyase defects cause histidinemia which is characterized by increased histidine and histamine and decreased urocanic acid in body fluids. Several transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been found for this gene.
HAMP	The product encoded by this gene is involved in the maintenance of iron homeostasis, and it is necessary for the regulation of iron storage in macrophages, and for intestinal iron absorption. The preproprotein is post-translationally cleaved into mature peptides of 20, 22 and 25 amino acids, and these active peptides are rich in cysteines, which form intramolecular bonds that stabilize their beta-sheet structures. These peptides exhibit antimicrobial activity against bacteria and fungi. Mutations in this gene cause hemochromatosis type 2B, also known as juvenile hemochromatosis, a disease caused by severe iron overload that results in cardiomyopathy, cirrhosis, and endocrine failure.
HAO1	This gene is one of three related genes that have 2-hydroxyacid oxidase activity yet differ in encoded protein amino acid sequence, tissue expression and substrate preference. Subcellular location of the encoded protein is the peroxisome. Specifically, this gene is expressed primarily in liver and pancreas and the encoded protein is most active on glycolate, a two-carbon substrate. The protein is also active on 2-hydroxy fatty acids. The transcript detected at high levels in pancreas may represent an alternatively spliced form or the use of a multiple near-consensus upstream polyadenylation site.
HAO2	This gene is one of three related genes that have 2-hydroxyacid oxidase activity. The encoded protein localizes to the peroxisome has the highest activity toward the substrate 2-hydroxypalmitate. Alternative splicing results in multiple transcript variants.
HARS	Aminoacyl-tRNA synthetases are a class of enzymes that charge tRNAs with their cognate amino acids. The protein encoded by this gene is a cytoplasmic enzyme which belongs to the class II family of aminoacyl-tRNA synthetases. The enzyme is responsible for the synthesis of histidyl-transfer RNA, which is essential for the incorporation of histidine into proteins. The gene is located in a head-to-head orientation with HARSL on chromosome five, where the homologous genes share a bidirectional promoter. The gene product is a frequent target of autoantibodies in the human autoimmune disease polymyositis/dermatomyositis. Several transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been found for this gene.
HBA1	The human alpha globin gene cluster located on chromosome 16 spans about 30 kb and includes seven loci: 5'- zeta
HBB	The alpha (HBA) and beta (HBB) loci determine the structure of the 2 types of polypeptide chains in adult hemoglobin, Hb A. The normal adult hemoglobin tetramer consists of two alpha chains and two beta chains. Mutant beta globin causes sickle cell anemia. Absence of beta chain causes beta-zero-thalassemia. Reduced amounts of detectable beta globin causes beta-plus-thalassemia. The order of the genes in the beta-globin cluster is 5'-epsilon -- gamma-G -- gamma-A -- delta -- beta--3'.
HBEGF	Growth factor that mediates its effects via EGFR, ERBB2 and ERBB4. Required for normal cardiac valve formation and normal heart function. Promotes smooth muscle cell proliferation. May be involved in macrophage-mediated cellular proliferation. It is mitogenic for fibroblasts, but not endothelial cells. It is able to bind EGF receptor/EGFR with higher affinity than EGF itself and is a far more potent mitogen for smooth muscle cells than EGF. Also acts as a diphtheria toxin receptor.
HCAR1	G protein-coupled receptors (GPCRs, or GPRs), such as GPR81, contain 7 transmembrane domains and transduce extracellular signals through heterotrimeric G proteins.
HCAR2	Acts as a high affinity receptor for both nicotinic acid (also known as niacin) and (D)-beta-hydroxybutyrate and mediates increased adiponectin secretion and decreased lipolysis through G(i)-protein-mediated inhibition of adenylyl cyclase. This pharmacological effect requires nicotinic acid doses that are much higher than those provided by a normal diet. Mediates nicotinic acid-induced apoptosis in mature neutrophils. Receptor activation by nicotinic acid results in reduced cAMP levels which may affect activity of cAMP-dependent protein kinase A and phosphorylation of target proteins, leading to neutrophil apoptosis. The rank order of potency for the displacement of nicotinic acid binding is 5-methyl pyrazole-3-carboxylic acid = pyridine-3-acetic acid > acifran > 5-methyl nicotinic acid = acipimox >> nicotinuric acid = nicotinamide.
HCAR3	Receptor for 3-OH-octanoid acid mediates a negative feedback regulation of adipocyte lipolysis to counteract prolipolytic influences under conditions of physiological or pathological increases in beta-oxidation rates. Acts as a low affinity receptor for nicotinic acid. This pharmacological effect requires nicotinic acid doses that are much higher than those provided by a normal diet.
HCK	The protein encoded by this gene is a member of the Src family of tyrosine kinases. This protein is primarily hemopoietic, particularly in cells of the myeloid and B-lymphoid lineages. It may help couple the Fc receptor to the activation of the respiratory burst. In addition, it may play a role in neutrophil migration and in the degranulation of neutrophils. Multiple isoforms with different subcellular distributions are produced due to both alternative splicing and the use of alternative translation initiation codons, including a non-AUG (CUG) codon.
HCN1	The membrane protein encoded by this gene is a hyperpolarization-activated cation channel that contributes to the native pacemaker currents in heart and neurons. The encoded protein can homodimerize or heterodimerize with other pore-forming subunits to form a potassium channel. This channel may act as a receptor for sour tastes.
HCN2	The protein encoded by this gene is a hyperpolarization-activated cation channel involved in the generation of native pacemaker activity in the heart and in the brain. The encoded protein is activated by cAMP and can produce a fast, large current. Defects in this gene were noted as a possible cause of some forms of epilepsy.
HCN3	This gene encodes a multi-pass membrane protein that functions as a voltage gated cation channel. The encoded protein is a member of a family of closely related cyclic adenosine monophosphate-binding channel proteins. Alternative splicing results in multiple transcript variants.
HCN4	This gene encodes a member of the hyperpolarization-activated cyclic nucleotide-gated potassium channels. The encoded protein shows slow kinetics of activation and inactivation, and is necessary for the cardiac pacemaking process. This channel may also mediate responses to sour stimuli. Mutations in this gene have been linked to sick sinus syndrome 2, also known as atrial fibrillation with bradyarrhythmia or familial sinus bradycardia. Two pseudogenes have been identified on chromosome 15.
HCRTR1	The protein encoded by this gene is a G-protein coupled receptor involved in the regulation of feeding behavior. The encoded protein selectively binds the hypothalamic neuropeptide orexin A. A related gene (HCRTR2) encodes a G-protein coupled receptor that binds orexin A and orexin B.
HCRTR2	The protein encoded by this gene is a G-protein coupled receptor involved in the regulation of feeding behavior. The encoded protein binds the hypothalamic neuropeptides orexin A and orexin B. A related gene (HCRTR1) encodes a G-protein coupled receptor that selectively binds orexin A.
HDAC1	Histone acetylation and deacetylation, catalyzed by multisubunit complexes, play a key role in the regulation of eukaryotic gene expression. The protein encoded by this gene belongs to the histone deacetylase/acuc/apha family and is a component of the histone deacetylase complex. It also interacts with retinoblastoma tumor-suppressor protein and this complex is a key element in the control of cell proliferation and differentiation. Together with metastasis-associated protein-2, it deacetylates p53 and modulates its effect on cell growth and apoptosis.
HDAC10	The protein encoded by this gene belongs to the histone deacetylase family, members of which deacetylate lysine residues on the N-terminal part of the core histones. Histone deacetylation modulates chromatin structure, and plays an important role in transcriptional regulation, cell cycle progression, and developmental events. Alternatively spliced transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been found for this gene.
HDAC11	This gene encodes a class IV histone deacetylase. The encoded protein is localized to the nucleus and may be involved in regulating the expression of interleukin 10. Alternative splicing results in multiple transcript variants.
HDAC2	This gene product belongs to the histone deacetylase family. Histone deacetylases act via the formation of large multiprotein complexes, and are responsible for the deacetylation of lysine residues at the N-terminal regions of core histones (H2A, H2B, H3 and H4). This protein forms transcriptional repressor complexes by associating with many different proteins, including YY1, a mammalian zinc-finger transcription factor. Thus, it plays an important role in transcriptional regulation, cell cycle progression and developmental events. Alternative splicing results in multiple transcript variants.
HDAC3	Histones play a critical role in transcriptional regulation, cell cycle progression, and developmental events. Histone acetylation/deacetylation alters chromosome structure and affects transcription factor access to DNA. The protein encoded by this gene belongs to the histone deacetylase/acuc/apha family. It has histone deacetylase activity and represses transcription when tethered to a promoter. It may participate in the regulation of transcription through its binding with the zinc-finger transcription factor YY1. This protein can also down-regulate p53 function and thus modulate cell growth and apoptosis. This gene is regarded as a potential tumor suppressor gene.
HDAC4	Histones play a critical role in transcriptional regulation, cell cycle progression, and developmental events. Histone acetylation/deacetylation alters chromosome structure and affects transcription factor access to DNA. The protein encoded by this gene belongs to class II of the histone deacetylase/acuc/apha family. It possesses histone deacetylase activity and represses transcription when tethered to a promoter. This protein does not bind DNA directly, but through transcription factors MEF2C and MEF2D. It seems to interact in a multiprotein complex with RbAp48 and HDAC3.
HDAC5	Histones play a critical role in transcriptional regulation, cell cycle progression, and developmental events. Histone acetylation/deacetylation alters chromosome structure and affects transcription factor access to DNA. The protein encoded by this gene belongs to the class II histone deacetylase/acuc/apha family. It possesses histone deacetylase activity and represses transcription when tethered to a promoter. It coimmunoprecipitates only with HDAC3 family member and might form multicomplex proteins. It also interacts with myocyte enhancer factor-2 (MEF2) proteins, resulting in repression of MEF2-dependent genes. This gene is thought to be associated with colon cancer. Two transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been found for this gene.
HDAC6	Histones play a critical role in transcriptional regulation, cell cycle progression, and developmental events. Histone acetylation/deacetylation alters chromosome structure and affects transcription factor access to DNA. The protein encoded by this gene belongs to class II of the histone deacetylase/acuc/apha family. It contains an internal duplication of two catalytic domains which appear to function independently of each other. This protein possesses histone deacetylase activity and represses transcription.
HDAC7	Histones play a critical role in transcriptional regulation, cell cycle progression, and developmental events. Histone acetylation/deacetylation alters chromosome structure and affects transcription factor access to DNA. The protein encoded by this gene has sequence homology to members of the histone deacetylase family. This gene is orthologous to mouse HDAC7 gene whose protein promotes repression mediated via the transcriptional corepressor SMRT. Alternatively spliced transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been found for this gene.
HDAC8	Histones play a critical role in transcriptional regulation, cell cycle progression, and developmental events. Histone acetylation/deacetylation alters chromosome structure and affects transcription factor access to DNA. The protein encoded by this gene belongs to class I of the histone deacetylase family. It catalyzes the deacetylation of lysine residues in the histone N-terminal tails and represses transcription in large multiprotein complexes with transcriptional co-repressors. Multiple transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been found for this gene.
HDAC9	Histones play a critical role in transcriptional regulation, cell cycle progression, and developmental events. Histone acetylation/deacetylation alters chromosome structure and affects transcription factor access to DNA. The protein encoded by this gene has sequence homology to members of the histone deacetylase family. This gene is orthologous to the Xenopus and mouse MITR genes. The MITR protein lacks the histone deacetylase catalytic domain. It represses MEF2 activity through recruitment of multicomponent corepressor complexes that include CtBP and HDACs. This encoded protein may play a role in hematopoiesis. Multiple alternatively spliced transcripts have been described for this gene but the full-length nature of some of them has not been determined.
HES1	This protein belongs to the basic helix-loop-helix family of transcription factors. It is a transcriptional repressor of genes that require a bHLH protein for their transcription. The protein has a particular type of basic domain that contains a helix interrupting protein that binds to the N-box rather than the canonical E-box.
HEXA	This gene encodes a member of the glycosyl hydrolase 20 family of proteins. The encoded preproprotein is proteolytically processed to generate the alpha subunit of the lysosomal enzyme beta-hexosaminidase. This enzyme, together with the cofactor GM2 activator protein, catalyzes the degradation of the ganglioside GM2, and other molecules containing terminal N-acetyl hexosamines. Mutations in this gene lead to an accumulation of GM2 ganglioside in neurons, the underlying cause of neurodegenerative disorders termed the GM2 gangliosidoses, including Tay-Sachs disease (GM2-gangliosidosis type I). Alternative splicing results in multiple transcript variants, at least one of which encodes a preproprotein that is proteolytically processed.
HEXB	Hexosaminidase B is the beta subunit of the lysosomal enzyme beta-hexosaminidase that, together with the cofactor GM2 activator protein, catalyzes the degradation of the ganglioside GM2, and other molecules containing terminal N-acetyl hexosamines. Beta-hexosaminidase is composed of two subunits, alpha and beta, which are encoded by separate genes. Both beta-hexosaminidase alpha and beta subunits are members of family 20 of glycosyl hydrolases. Mutations in the alpha or beta subunit genes lead to an accumulation of GM2 ganglioside in neurons and neurodegenerative disorders termed the GM2 gangliosidoses. Beta subunit gene mutations lead to Sandhoff disease (GM2-gangliosidosis type II). Alternatively spliced transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been found for this gene.
HEXIM1	Expression of this gene is induced by hexamethylene-bis-acetamide in vascular smooth muscle cells. This gene has no introns.
HGF	This gene encodes a protein that binds to the hepatocyte growth factor receptor to regulate cell growth, cell motility and morphogenesis in numerous cell and tissue types. Alternative splicing results in multiple transcript variants, at least one of which encodes a preproprotein that is proteolytically processed to generate alpha and beta chains, which form the mature heterodimer. This protein is secreted by mesenchymal cells and acts as a multi-functional cytokine on cells of mainly epithelial origin. This protein also plays a role in angiogenesis, tumorogenesis, and tissue regeneration. Although the encoded protein is a member of the peptidase S1 family of serine proteases, it lacks peptidase activity. Mutations in this gene are associated with nonsyndromic hearing loss.
HIBCH	This gene encodes the enzyme responsible for hydrolysis of both HIBYL-CoA and beta-hydroxypropionyl-CoA. Mutations in this gene have been associated with 3-hyroxyisobutyryl-CoA hydrolase deficiency. Alternative splicing results in multiple transcript variants.
HIF1A	This gene encodes the alpha subunit of transcription factor hypoxia-inducible factor-1 (HIF-1), which is a heterodimer composed of an alpha and a beta subunit. HIF-1 functions as a master regulator of cellular and systemic homeostatic response to hypoxia by activating transcription of many genes, including those involved in energy metabolism, angiogenesis, apoptosis, and other genes whose protein products increase oxygen delivery or facilitate metabolic adaptation to hypoxia. HIF-1 thus plays an essential role in embryonic vascularization, tumor angiogenesis and pathophysiology of ischemic disease. Alternatively spliced transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been identified for this gene.
HIF1AN	Hydroxylates HIF-1 alpha at 'Asn-803' in the C-terminal transactivation domain (CAD). Functions as an oxygen sensor and, under normoxic conditions, the hydroxylation prevents interaction of HIF-1 with transcriptional coactivators including Cbp/p300-interacting transactivator. Involved in transcriptional repression through interaction with HIF1A, VHL and histone deacetylases. Hydroxylates specific Asn residues within ankyrin repeat domains (ARD) of NFKB1, NFKBIA, NOTCH1, ASB4, PPP1R12A and several other ARD-containing proteins. Also hydroxylates Asp and His residues within ARDs of ANK1 and TNKS2, respectively. Negatively regulates NOTCH1 activity, accelerating myogenic differentiation. Positively regulates ASB4 activity, promoting vascular differentiation.
HINT1	This gene encodes a protein that hydrolyzes purine nucleotide phosphoramidates substrates, including AMP-morpholidate, AMP-N-alanine methyl ester, AMP-alpha-acetyl lysine methyl ester, and AMP-NH2. The encoded protein interacts with these substrates via a histidine triad motif. This gene is considered a tumor suppressor gene. In addition, mutations in this gene can cause autosomal recessive neuromyotonia and axonal neuropathy. There are several related pseudogenes on chromosome 7. Several transcript variants have been observed.
HIPK1	The protein encoded by this gene belongs to the Ser/Thr family of protein kinases and HIPK subfamily. It phosphorylates homeodomain transcription factors and may also function as a co-repressor for homeodomain transcription factors. Alternative splicing results in four transcript variants encoding four distinct isoforms.
HIPK2	This gene encodes a conserved serine/threonine kinase that is a member of the homeodomain-interacting protein kinase family. The encoded protein interacts with homeodomain transcription factors and many other transcription factors such as p53, and can function as both a corepressor and a coactivator depending on the transcription factor and its subcellular localization. Multiple transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been found for this gene.
HIPK3	Serine/threonine-protein kinase involved in transcription regulation, apoptosis and steroidogenic gene expression. Phosphorylates JUN and RUNX2. Seems to negatively regulate apoptosis by promoting FADD phosphorylation. Enhances androgen receptor-mediated transcription. May act as a transcriptional corepressor for NK homeodomain transcription factors. The phosphorylation of NR5A1 activates SF1 leading to increased steroidogenic gene expression upon cAMP signaling pathway stimulation. In osteoblasts, supports transcription activation: phosphorylates RUNX2 that synergizes with SPEN/MINT to enhance FGFR2-mediated activation of the osteocalcin FGF-responsive element (OCFRE).
HIPK4	This gene encodes a member of the homeodomain interacting protein kinase (HIPK) family of proteins. While other members of this family are found throughout vertebrates, this member is present only in mammals. Compared to other members of this family, the encoded protein lacks a nuclear localization signal and a C-terminal autoinhibitory domain. The encoded protein exhibits kinase activity and may phosphorylate the tumor suppressor protein p53.
HIST1H4A	Histones are basic nuclear proteins that are responsible for the nucleosome structure of the chromosomal fiber in eukaryotes. Two molecules of each of the four core histones (H2A, H2B, H3, and H4) form an octamer, around which approximately 146 bp of DNA is wrapped in repeating units, called nucleosomes. The linker histone, H1, interacts with linker DNA between nucleosomes and functions in the compaction of chromatin into higher order structures. This gene is intronless and encodes a replication-dependent histone that is a member of the histone H4 family. Transcripts from this gene lack polyA tails but instead contain a palindromic termination element. This gene is found in the large histone gene cluster on chromosome 6.
HK1	Hexokinases phosphorylate glucose to produce glucose-6-phosphate, the first step in most glucose metabolism pathways. This gene encodes a ubiquitous form of hexokinase which localizes to the outer membrane of mitochondria. Mutations in this gene have been associated with hemolytic anemia due to hexokinase deficiency. Alternative splicing of this gene results in several transcript variants which encode different isoforms, some of which are tissue-specific.
HK2	Hexokinases phosphorylate glucose to produce glucose-6-phosphate, the first step in most glucose metabolism pathways. This gene encodes hexokinase 2, the predominant form found in skeletal muscle. It localizes to the outer membrane of mitochondria. Expression of this gene is insulin-responsive, and studies in rat suggest that it is involved in the increased rate of glycolysis seen in rapidly growing cancer cells.
HK3	Hexokinases phosphorylate glucose to produce glucose-6-phosphate, the first step in most glucose metabolism pathways. This gene encodes hexokinase 3. Similar to hexokinases 1 and 2, this allosteric enzyme is inhibited by its product glucose-6-phosphate.
HKDC1	This gene encodes a member of the hexokinase protein family. The encoded protein is involved in glucose metabolism, and reduced expression may be associated with gestational diabetes mellitus. High expression of this gene may also be associated with poor prognosis in hepatocarcinoma.
HLA-A	HLA-A belongs to the HLA class I heavy chain paralogues. This class I molecule is a heterodimer consisting of a heavy chain and a light chain (beta-2 microglobulin). The heavy chain is anchored in the membrane. Class I molecules play a central role in the immune system by presenting peptides derived from the endoplasmic reticulum lumen. They are expressed in nearly all cells. The heavy chain is approximately 45 kDa and its gene contains 8 exons. Exon 1 encodes the leader peptide, exons 2 and 3 encode the alpha1 and alpha2 domains, which both bind the peptide, exon 4 encodes the alpha3 domain, exon 5 encodes the transmembrane region, and exons 6 and 7 encode the cytoplasmic tail. Polymorphisms within exon 2 and exon 3 are responsible for the peptide binding specificity of each class one molecule. Typing for these polymorphisms is routinely done for bone marrow and kidney transplantation. Hundreds of HLA-A alleles have been described.
HLA-DRB1	HLA-DRB1 belongs to the HLA class II beta chain paralogs. The class II molecule is a heterodimer consisting of an alpha (DRA) and a beta chain (DRB), both anchored in the membrane. It plays a central role in the immune system by presenting peptides derived from extracellular proteins. Class II molecules are expressed in antigen presenting cells (APC: B lymphocytes, dendritic cells, macrophages). The beta chain is approximately 26-28 kDa. It is encoded by 6 exons. Exon one encodes the leader peptide; exons 2 and 3 encode the two extracellular domains; exon 4 encodes the transmembrane domain; and exon 5 encodes the cytoplasmic tail. Within the DR molecule the beta chain contains all the polymorphisms specifying the peptide binding specificities. Hundreds of DRB1 alleles have been described and typing for these polymorphisms is routinely done for bone marrow and kidney transplantation. DRB1 is expressed at a level five times higher than its paralogs DRB3, DRB4 and DRB5. DRB1 is present in all individuals. Allelic variants of DRB1 are linked with either none or one of the genes DRB3, DRB4 and DRB5. There are 4 related pseudogenes: DRB2, DRB6, DRB7, DRB8 and DRB9.
HLCS	This gene encodes an enzyme that catalyzes the binding of biotin to carboxylases and histones. The protein plays an important role in gluconeogenesis, fatty acid synthesis and branched chain amino acid catabolism. Defects in this gene are the cause of holocarboxylase synthetase deficiency. Multiple alternatively spliced variants, encoding the same protein, have been identified.
HMBS	This gene encodes a member of the hydroxymethylbilane synthase superfamily. The encoded protein is the third enzyme of the heme biosynthetic pathway and catalyzes the head to tail condensation of four porphobilinogen molecules into the linear hydroxymethylbilane. Mutations in this gene are associated with the autosomal dominant disease acute intermittent porphyria. Alternatively spliced transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been described.
HMGB1	This gene encodes a protein that belongs to the High Mobility Group-box superfamily. The encoded non-histone, nuclear DNA-binding protein regulates transcription, and is involved in organization of DNA. This protein plays a role in several cellular processes, including inflammation, cell differentiation and tumor cell migration. Multiple pseudogenes of this gene have been identified. Alternative splicing results in multiple transcript variants that encode the same protein.
HMGCR	HMG-CoA reductase is the rate-limiting enzyme for cholesterol synthesis and is regulated via a negative feedback mechanism mediated by sterols and non-sterol metabolites derived from mevalonate, the product of the reaction catalyzed by reductase. Normally in mammalian cells this enzyme is suppressed by cholesterol derived from the internalization and degradation of low density lipoprotein (LDL) via the LDL receptor. Competitive inhibitors of the reductase induce the expression of LDL receptors in the liver, which in turn increases the catabolism of plasma LDL and lowers the plasma concentration of cholesterol, an important determinant of atherosclerosis. Alternatively spliced transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been found for this gene.
HMOX1	Heme oxygenase, an essential enzyme in heme catabolism, cleaves heme to form biliverdin, which is subsequently converted to bilirubin by biliverdin reductase, and carbon monoxide, a putative neurotransmitter. Heme oxygenase activity is induced by its substrate heme and by various nonheme substances. Heme oxygenase occurs as 2 isozymes, an inducible heme oxygenase-1 and a constitutive heme oxygenase-2. HMOX1 and HMOX2 belong to the heme oxygenase family.
HMOX2	Heme oxygenase, an essential enzyme in heme catabolism, cleaves heme to form biliverdin, which is subsequently converted to bilirubin by biliverdin reductase, and carbon monoxide, a putative neurotransmitter. Heme oxygenase activity is induced by its substrate heme and by various nonheme substances. Heme oxygenase occurs as 2 isozymes, an inducible heme oxygenase-1 and a constitutive heme oxygenase-2. HMOX1 and HMOX2 belong to the heme oxygenase family. Several alternatively spliced transcript variants encoding three different isoforms have been found for this gene.
HNF4A	The protein encoded by this gene is a nuclear transcription factor which binds DNA as a homodimer. The encoded protein controls the expression of several genes, including hepatocyte nuclear factor 1 alpha, a transcription factor which regulates the expression of several hepatic genes. This gene may play a role in development of the liver, kidney, and intestines. Mutations in this gene have been associated with monogenic autosomal dominant non-insulin-dependent diabetes mellitus type I. Alternative splicing of this gene results in multiple transcript variants encoding several different isoforms.
HNF4G	Transcription factor. Has a lower transcription activation potential than HNF4-alpha.
HNMT	In mammals, histamine is metabolized by two major pathways: N(tau)-methylation via histamine N-methyltransferase and oxidative deamination via diamine oxidase. This gene encodes the first enzyme which is found in the cytosol and uses S-adenosyl-L-methionine as the methyl donor. In the mammalian brain, the neurotransmitter activity of histamine is controlled by N(tau)-methylation as diamine oxidase is not found in the central nervous system. A common genetic polymorphism affects the activity levels of this gene product in red blood cells. Multiple alternatively spliced transcript variants that encode different proteins have been found for this gene.
HNRNPA1	This gene encodes a member of a family of ubiquitously expressed heterogeneous nuclear ribonucleoproteins (hnRNPs), which are RNA-binding proteins that associate with pre-mRNAs in the nucleus and influence pre-mRNA processing, as well as other aspects of mRNA metabolism and transport. The protein encoded by this gene is one of the most abundant core proteins of hnRNP complexes and plays a key role in the regulation of alternative splicing. Mutations in this gene have been observed in individuals with amyotrophic lateral sclerosis 20. Multiple alternatively spliced transcript variants have been found. There are numerous pseudogenes of this gene distributed throughout the genome.
HNRNPC	This gene belongs to the subfamily of ubiquitously expressed heterogeneous nuclear ribonucleoproteins (hnRNPs). The hnRNPs are RNA binding proteins and they complex with heterogeneous nuclear RNA (hnRNA). These proteins are associated with pre-mRNAs in the nucleus and appear to influence pre-mRNA processing and other aspects of mRNA metabolism and transport. While all of the hnRNPs are present in the nucleus, some seem to shuttle between the nucleus and the cytoplasm. The hnRNP proteins have distinct nucleic acid binding properties. The protein encoded by this gene can act as a tetramer and is involved in the assembly of 40S hnRNP particles. Multiple transcript variants encoding at least two different isoforms have been described for this gene.
HNRNPH1	This gene encodes a member of a subfamily of ubiquitously expressed heterogeneous nuclear ribonucleoproteins (hnRNPs). The hnRNPs are RNA binding proteins that complex with heterogeneous nuclear RNA. These proteins are associated with pre-mRNAs in the nucleus and appear to influence pre-mRNA processing and other aspects of mRNA metabolism and transport. While all of the hnRNPs are present in the nucleus, some may shuttle between the nucleus and the cytoplasm. The hnRNP proteins have distinct nucleic acid binding properties. The protein encoded by this gene has three repeats of quasi-RRM domains that bind to RNA and is very similar to the family member HNRPF. This gene may be associated with hereditary lymphedema type I. Alternatively spliced transcript variants have been described
HOGA1	The authors of PMID:20797690 cloned this gene while searching for genes in a region of chromosome 10 linked to primary hyperoxalurea type III. They noted that even though the encoded protein has been described as a mitochondrial dihydrodipicolinate synthase-like enzyme, it shares little homology with E. coli dihydrodipicolinate synthase (Dhdps), particularly in the putative substrate-binding region. Moreover, neither lysine biosynthesis nor sialic acid metabolism, for which Dhdps is responsible, occurs in vertebrate mitochondria. They propose that this gene encodes mitochondrial 4-hydroxyl-2-oxoglutarate aldolase (EC 4.1.3.16), which catalyzes the final step in the metabolic pathway of hydroxyproline, releasing glyoxylate and pyruvate. This gene is predominantly expressed in the liver and kidney, and mutations in this gene are found in patients with primary hyperoxalurea type III. Alternatively spliced transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been noted for this gene.
HPD	The protein encoded by this gene is an enzyme in the catabolic pathway of tyrosine. The encoded protein catalyzes the conversion of 4-hydroxyphenylpyruvate to homogentisate. Defects in this gene are a cause of tyrosinemia type 3 (TYRO3) and hawkinsinuria (HAWK). Two transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been found for this gene.
HPGD	This gene encodes a member of the short-chain nonmetalloenzyme alcohol dehydrogenase protein family. The encoded enzyme is responsible for the metabolism of prostaglandins, which function in a variety of physiologic and cellular processes such as inflammation. Mutations in this gene result in primary autosomal recessive hypertrophic osteoarthropathy and cranioosteoarthropathy. Multiple transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been found for this gene.
HPGDS	Prostaglandin-D synthase is a sigma class glutathione-S-transferase family member. The enzyme catalyzes the conversion of PGH2 to PGD2 and plays a role in the production of prostanoids in the immune system and mast cells. The presence of this enzyme can be used to identify the differentiation stage of human megakaryocytes.
HPN	This gene encodes a type II transmembrane serine protease that may be involved in diverse cellular functions, including blood coagulation and the maintenance of cell morphology. Expression of the encoded protein is associated with the growth and progression of cancers, particularly prostate cancer. The protein is cleaved into a catalytic serine protease chain and a non-catalytic scavenger receptor cysteine-rich chain, which associate via a single disulfide bond. Alternative splicing results in multiple transcript variants.
HPRT1	The protein encoded by this gene is a transferase, which catalyzes conversion of hypoxanthine to inosine monophosphate and guanine to guanosine monophosphate via transfer of the 5-phosphoribosyl group from 5-phosphoribosyl 1-pyrophosphate. This enzyme plays a central role in the generation of purine nucleotides through the purine salvage pathway. Mutations in this gene result in Lesch-Nyhan syndrome or gout.
HPSE	Heparan sulfate proteoglycans are major components of the basement membrane and extracellular matrix. The protein encoded by this gene is an enzyme that cleaves heparan sulfate proteoglycans to permit cell movement through remodeling of the extracellular matrix. In addition, this cleavage can release bioactive molecules from the extracellular matrix. Several transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been found for this gene.
HRAS	This gene belongs to the Ras oncogene family, whose members are related to the transforming genes of mammalian sarcoma retroviruses. The products encoded by these genes function in signal transduction pathways. These proteins can bind GTP and GDP, and they have intrinsic GTPase activity. This protein undergoes a continuous cycle of de- and re-palmitoylation, which regulates its rapid exchange between the plasma membrane and the Golgi apparatus. Mutations in this gene cause Costello syndrome, a disease characterized by increased growth at the prenatal stage, growth deficiency at the postnatal stage, predisposition to tumor formation, cognitive disability, skin and musculoskeletal abnormalities, distinctive facial appearance and cardiovascular abnormalities. Defects in this gene are implicated in a variety of cancers, including bladder cancer, follicular thyroid cancer, and oral squamous cell carcinoma. Multiple transcript variants, which encode different isoforms, have been identified for this gene.
HRH1	Histamine is a ubiquitous messenger molecule released from mast cells, enterochromaffin-like cells, and neurons. Its various actions are mediated by histamine receptors H1, H2, H3 and H4. The protein encoded by this gene is an integral membrane protein and belongs to the G protein-coupled receptor superfamily. It mediates the contraction of smooth muscles, the increase in capillary permeability due to contraction of terminal venules, the release of catecholamine from adrenal medulla, and neurotransmission in the central nervous system. It has been associated with multiple processes, including memory and learning, circadian rhythm, and thermoregulation. It is also known to contribute to the pathophysiology of allergic diseases such as atopic dermatitis, asthma, anaphylaxis and allergic rhinitis. Multiple alternatively spliced variants, encoding the same protein, have been identified.
HRH2	Histamine is a ubiquitous messenger molecule released from mast cells, enterochromaffin-like cells, and neurons. Its various actions are mediated by histamine receptors H1, H2, H3 and H4. Histamine receptor H2 belongs to the family 1 of G protein-coupled receptors. It is an integral membrane protein and stimulates gastric acid secretion. It also regulates gastrointestinal motility and intestinal secretion and is thought to be involved in regulating cell growth and differentiation. Alternatively spliced transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been found for this gene.
HRH3	Histamine is a ubiquitous messenger molecule released from mast cells, enterochromaffin-like cells, and neurons. Its various actions are mediated by histamine receptors H1, H2, H3 and H4. This gene encodes one of the histamine receptors (H3) which belongs to the family 1 of G protein-coupled receptors. It is an integral membrane protein and can regulate neurotransmitter release. This receptor can also increase voltage-dependent calcium current in smooth muscles and innervates the blood vessels and the heart in cardiovascular system.
HRH4	Histamine is a ubiquitous messenger molecule released from mast cells, enterochromaffin-like cells, and neurons. Its various actions are mediated by a family of histamine receptors, which are a subset of the G-protein coupled receptor superfamily. This gene encodes a histamine receptor that is predominantly expressed in haematopoietic cells. The protein is thought to play a role in inflammation and allergy reponses. Multiple transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been found for this gene.
HSD11B1	The protein encoded by this gene is a microsomal enzyme that catalyzes the conversion of the stress hormone cortisol to the inactive metabolite cortisone. In addition, the encoded protein can catalyze the reverse reaction, the conversion of cortisone to cortisol. Too much cortisol can lead to central obesity, and a particular variation in this gene has been associated with obesity and insulin resistance in children. Mutations in this gene and H6PD (hexose-6-phosphate dehydrogenase (glucose 1-dehydrogenase)) are the cause of cortisone reductase deficiency. Alternate splicing results in multiple transcript variants encoding the same protein.
HSD11B2	There are at least two isozymes of the corticosteroid 11-beta-dehydrogenase, a microsomal enzyme complex responsible for the interconversion of cortisol and cortisone. The type I isozyme has both 11-beta-dehydrogenase (cortisol to cortisone) and 11-oxoreductase (cortisone to cortisol) activities. The type II isozyme, encoded by this gene, has only 11-beta-dehydrogenase activity. In aldosterone-selective epithelial tissues such as the kidney, the type II isozyme catalyzes the glucocorticoid cortisol to the inactive metabolite cortisone, thus preventing illicit activation of the mineralocorticoid receptor. In tissues that do not express the mineralocorticoid receptor, such as the placenta and testis, it protects cells from the growth-inhibiting and/or pro-apoptotic effects of cortisol, particularly during embryonic development. Mutations in this gene cause the syndrome of apparent mineralocorticoid excess and hypertension.
HSD17B1	This gene encodes a member of the 17beta-hydroxysteroid dehydrogenase family of short-chain dehydrogenases/reductases. It has a dual function in estrogen activation and androgen inactivation and plays a major role in establishing the estrogen E2 concentration gradient between serum and peripheral tissues. The encoded protein catalyzes the last step in estrogen activation, using NADPH to convert estrogens E1 and E2 and androgens like 4-androstenedione, to testosterone. It has an N-terminal short-chain dehydrogenase domain with a cofactor binding site, and a narrow, hydrophobic C-terminal domain with a steroid substrate binding site. This gene is expressed primarily in the placenta and ovarian granulosa cells, and to a lesser extent, in the endometrium, adipose tissue, and prostate. Polymorphisms in this gene have been linked to breast and prostate cancer. A pseudogene of this gene has been identified. Alternative splicing results in multiple transcript variants.
HSD17B10	This gene encodes 3-hydroxyacyl-CoA dehydrogenase type II, a member of the short-chain dehydrogenase/reductase superfamily. The gene product is a mitochondrial protein that catalyzes the oxidation of a wide variety of fatty acids and steroids, and is a subunit of mitochondrial ribonuclease P, which is involved in tRNA maturation. The protein has been implicated in the development of Alzheimer disease, and mutations in the gene are the cause of 17beta-hydroxysteroid dehydrogenase type 10 (HSD10) deficiency. Several alternatively spliced transcript variants have been identified, but the full-length nature of only two transcript variants has been determined.
HSD17B12	This gene encodes a very important 17beta-hydroxysteroid dehydrogenase (17beta-HSD) that converts estrone into estradiol in ovarian tissue. This enzyme is also involved in fatty acid elongation.
HSD17B14	17-beta-hydroxysteroid dehydrogenases, such as HSD17B14, are primarily involved in metabolism of steroids at the C17 position and also of other substrates, such as fatty acids, prostaglandins, and xenobiotics (Lukacik et al., 2007
HSD17B2	Capable of catalyzing the interconversion of testosterone and androstenedione, as well as estradiol and estrone. Also has 20-alpha-HSD activity. Uses NADH while EDH17B3 uses NADPH.
HSD17B3	This isoform of 17 beta-hydroxysteroid dehydrogenase is expressed predominantly in the testis and catalyzes the conversion of androstenedione to testosterone.  It preferentially uses NADP as cofactor.  Deficiency can result in male pseudohermaphroditism with gynecomastia.
HSD17B4	The protein encoded by this gene is a bifunctional enzyme that is involved in the peroxisomal beta-oxidation pathway for fatty acids. It also acts as a catalyst for the formation of 3-ketoacyl-CoA intermediates from both straight-chain and 2-methyl-branched-chain fatty acids. Defects in this gene that affect the peroxisomal fatty acid beta-oxidation activity are a cause of D-bifunctional protein deficiency (DBPD). An apparent pseudogene of this gene is present on chromosome 8. Multiple alternatively spliced transcript variants encoding distinct isoforms have been found for this gene.
HSD17B7	HSD17B7 encodes an enzyme that functions both as a 17-beta-hydroxysteroid dehydrogenase (EC 1.1.1.62) in the biosynthesis of sex steroids and as a 3-ketosteroid reductase (EC 1.1.1.270) in the biosynthesis of cholesterol (Marijanovic et al., 2003
HSD3B1	The protein encoded by this gene is an enzyme that catalyzes the oxidative conversion of delta-5-3-beta-hydroxysteroid precursors into delta-4-ketosteroids, which leads to the production of all classes of steroid hormones. The encoded protein also catalyzes the interconversion of 3-beta-hydroxy- and 3-keto-5-alpha-androstane steroids.
HSD3B2	The protein encoded by this gene is a bifunctional enzyme that catalyzes the oxidative conversion of delta(5)-ene-3-beta-hydroxy steroid, and the oxidative conversion of ketosteroids. It plays a crucial role in the biosynthesis of all classes of hormonal steroids. This gene is predominantly expressed in the adrenals and the gonads. Mutations in this gene are associated with 3-beta-hydroxysteroid dehydrogenase, type II, deficiency. Alternatively spliced transcript variants have been found for this gene.
HSF1	The product of this gene is a transcription factor that is rapidly induced after temperature stress and binds heat shock promoter elements (HSE). This protein plays a role in the regulation of lifespan. Expression of this gene is repressed by phosphorylation, which promotes binding by heat shock protein 90.
HSP90AA1	The protein encoded by this gene is an inducible molecular chaperone that functions as a homodimer. The encoded protein aids in the proper folding of specific target proteins by use of an ATPase activity that is modulated by co-chaperones. Two transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been found for this gene.
HSP90AB1	This gene encodes a member of the heat shock protein 90 family; these proteins are involved in signal transduction, protein folding and degradation and morphological evolution. This gene encodes the constitutive form of the cytosolic 90 kDa heat-shock protein and is thought to play a role in gastric apoptosis and inflammation. Alternative splicing results in multiple transcript variants. Pseudogenes have been identified on multiple chromosomes.
HSP90B1	This gene encodes a member of a family of adenosine triphosphate(ATP)-metabolizing molecular chaperones with roles in stabilizing and folding other proteins. The encoded protein is localized to melanosomes and the endoplasmic reticulum. Expression of this protein is associated with a variety of pathogenic states, including tumor formation. There is a microRNA gene located within the 5' exon of this gene. There are pseudogenes for this gene on chromosomes 1 and 15.
HSPA1A	This intronless gene encodes a 70kDa heat shock protein which is a member of the heat shock protein 70 family. In conjuction with other heat shock proteins, this protein stabilizes existing proteins against aggregation and mediates the folding of newly translated proteins in the cytosol and in organelles. It is also involved in the ubiquitin-proteasome pathway through interaction with the AU-rich element RNA-binding protein 1. The gene is located in the major histocompatibility complex class III region, in a cluster with two closely related genes which encode similar proteins.
HSPA2	Molecular chaperone implicated in a wide variety of cellular processes, including protection of the proteome from stress, folding and transport of newly synthesized polypeptides, activation of proteolysis of misfolded proteins and the formation and dissociation of protein complexes. Plays a pivotal role in the protein quality control system, ensuring the correct folding of proteins, the re-folding of misfolded proteins and controlling the targeting of proteins for subsequent degradation. This is achieved through cycles of ATP binding, ATP hydrolysis and ADP release, mediated by co-chaperones. The affinity for polypeptides is regulated by its nucleotide bound state. In the ATP-bound form, it has a low affinity for substrate proteins. However, upon hydrolysis of the ATP to ADP, it undergoes a conformational change that increases its affinity for substrate proteins. It goes through repeated cycles of ATP hydrolysis and nucleotide exchange, which permits cycles of substrate binding and release .
HSPA5	The protein encoded by this gene is a member of the heat shock protein 70 (HSP70) family. It is localized in the lumen of the endoplasmic reticulum (ER), and is involved in the folding and assembly of proteins in the ER. As this protein interacts with many ER proteins, it may play a key role in monitoring protein transport through the cell.
HSPA6	Molecular chaperone implicated in a wide variety of cellular processes, including protection of the proteome from stress, folding and transport of newly synthesized polypeptides, activation of proteolysis of misfolded proteins and the formation and dissociation of protein complexes. Plays a pivotal role in the protein quality control system, ensuring the correct folding of proteins, the re-folding of misfolded proteins and controlling the targeting of proteins for subsequent degradation. This is achieved through cycles of ATP binding, ATP hydrolysis and ADP release, mediated by co-chaperones. The affinity for polypeptides is regulated by its nucleotide bound state. In the ATP-bound form, it has a low affinity for substrate proteins. However, upon hydrolysis of the ATP to ADP, it undergoes a conformational change that increases its affinity for substrate proteins. It goes through repeated cycles of ATP hydrolysis and nucleotide exchange, which permits cycles of substrate binding and release .
HSPA8	This gene encodes a member of the heat shock protein 70 family, which contains both heat-inducible and constitutively expressed members. This protein belongs to the latter group, which are also referred to as heat-shock cognate proteins. It functions as a chaperone, and binds to nascent polypeptides to facilitate correct folding. It also functions as an ATPase in the disassembly of clathrin-coated vesicles during transport of membrane components through the cell. Alternatively spliced transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been found for this gene.
HSPB1	This gene encodes a member of the small heat shock protein (HSP20) family of proteins. In response to environmental stress, the encoded protein translocates from the cytoplasm to the nucleus and functions as a molecular chaperone that promotes the correct folding of other proteins. This protein plays an important role in the differentiation of a wide variety of cell types. Expression of this gene is correlated with poor clinical outcome in multiple human cancers, and the encoded protein may promote cancer cell proliferation and metastasis, while protecting cancer cells from apoptosis. Mutations in this gene have been identified in human patients with Charcot-Marie-Tooth disease and distal hereditary motor neuropathy.
HSPD1	This gene encodes a member of the chaperonin family. The encoded mitochondrial protein may function as a signaling molecule in the innate immune system. This protein is essential for the folding and assembly of newly imported proteins in the mitochondria. This gene is adjacent to a related family member and the region between the 2 genes functions as a bidirectional promoter. Several pseudogenes have been associated with this gene. Two transcript variants encoding the same protein have been identified for this gene. Mutations associated with this gene cause autosomal recessive spastic paraplegia 13.
HSPH1	This gene encodes a member of the heat shock protein 70 family of proteins. The encoded protein functions as a nucleotide exchange factor for the molecular chaperone heat shock cognate 71 kDa protein (Hsc70). In addition, this protein plays a distinct but related role as a holdase that inhibits the aggregation of misfolded proteins, including the cystic fibrosis transmembrane conductance regulator (CFTR) protein. Elevated expression of this protein has been observed in numerous human cancers.
HTR1A	This gene encodes a G protein-coupled receptor for 5-hydroxytryptamine (serotonin), and belongs to the 5-hydroxytryptamine receptor subfamily. Serotonin has been implicated in a number of physiologic processes and pathologic conditions. Inactivation of this gene in mice results in behavior consistent with an increased anxiety and stress response. Mutation in the promoter of this gene has been associated with menstrual cycle-dependent periodic fevers.
HTR1B	The protein encoded by this intronless gene is a G-protein coupled receptor for serotonin (5-hydroxytryptamine). Ligand binding activates second messengers that inhibit the activity of adenylate cyclase and manage the release of serotonin, dopamine, and acetylcholine in the brain. The encoded protein may be involved in several neuropsychiatric disorders and therefore is often a target of antidepressant and other psychotherapeutic drugs.
HTR1D	G-protein coupled receptor for 5-hydroxytryptamine (serotonin). Also functions as a receptor for ergot alkaloid derivatives, various anxiolytic and antidepressant drugs and other psychoactive substances. Ligand binding causes a conformation change that triggers signaling via guanine nucleotide-binding proteins (G proteins) and modulates the activity of down-stream effectors, such as adenylate cyclase. Signaling inhibits adenylate cyclase activity. Regulates the release of 5-hydroxytryptamine in the brain, and thereby affects neural activity. May also play a role in regulating the release of other neurotransmitters. May play a role in vasoconstriction.
HTR1E	G-protein coupled receptor for 5-hydroxytryptamine (serotonin). Also functions as a receptor for various alkaloids and psychoactive substances. Ligand binding causes a conformation change that triggers signaling via guanine nucleotide-binding proteins (G proteins) and modulates the activity of down-stream effectors, such as adenylate cyclase. Signaling inhibits adenylate cyclase activity.
HTR1F	G-protein coupled receptor for 5-hydroxytryptamine (serotonin). Also functions as a receptor for various alkaloids and psychoactive substances. Ligand binding causes a conformation change that triggers signaling via guanine nucleotide-binding proteins (G proteins) and modulates the activity of down-stream effectors, such as adenylate cyclase. Signaling inhibits adenylate cyclase activity.
HTR2A	This gene encodes one of the receptors for serotonin, a neurotransmitter with many roles. Mutations in this gene are associated with susceptibility to schizophrenia and obsessive-compulsive disorder, and are also associated with response to the antidepressant citalopram in patients with major depressive disorder (MDD). MDD patients who also have a mutation in intron 2 of this gene show a significantly reduced response to citalopram as this antidepressant downregulates expression of this gene. Multiple transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been found for this gene.
HTR2B	This gene encodes one of the several different receptors for 5-hydroxytryptamine (serotonin) that belongs to the G-protein coupled receptor 1 family. Serotonin is a biogenic hormone that functions as a neurotransmitter, a hormone, and a mitogen. Serotonin receptors mediate many of the central and peripheral physiologic functions of serotonin, including regulation of cardiovascular functions and impulsive behavior. Population and family-based analyses of a minor allele (glutamine-to-stop substitution, designated Q20*) which blocks expression of this protein, and knockout studies in mice, suggest a role for this gene in impulsivity. However, other factors, such as elevated testosterone levels, may also be involved. Alternatively spliced transcript variants have been found for this gene.
HTR2C	This gene encodes a seven-transmembrane G-protein-coupled receptor. The encoded protein responds to signaling through the neurotransmitter serotonin. The mRNA of this gene is subject to multiple RNA editing events, where adenosine residues encoded by the genome are converted to inosines. RNA editing is predicted to alter the structure of the second intracellular loop, thereby generating alternate protein forms with decreased ability to interact with G proteins. Abnormalities in RNA editing of this gene have been detected in victims of suicide that suffer from depression. In addition, naturally-occuring variation in the promoter and 5' non-coding and coding regions of this gene may show statistically-significant association with mental illness and behavioral disorders. Alternative splicing results in multiple different transcript variants.
HTR3A	The product of this gene belongs to the ligand-gated ion channel receptor superfamily. This gene encodes subunit A of the type 3 receptor for 5-hydroxytryptamine (serotonin), a biogenic hormone that functions as a neurotransmitter, a hormone, and a mitogen. This receptor causes fast, depolarizing responses in neurons after activation. It appears that the heteromeric combination of A and B subunits is necessary to provide the full functional features of this receptor, since either subunit alone results in receptors with very low conductance and response amplitude. Alternatively spliced transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been identified.
HTR3B	The product of this gene belongs to the ligand-gated ion channel receptor superfamily. This gene encodes subunit B of the type 3 receptor for 5-hydroxytryptamine (serotonin), a biogenic hormone that functions as a neurotransmitter, a hormone, and a mitogen. This receptor causes fast, depolarizing responses in neurons after activation. It is not functional as a homomeric complex, but a pentaheteromeric complex with subunit A (HTR3A) displays the full functional features of this receptor.
HTR3E	This locus encodes a 5-hydroxytryptamine (serotonin) receptor subunit. The encoded protein, subunit E, may play a role in neurotransmission in myenteric neurons. Genes encoding subunits C, D and E form a cluster on chromosome 3. Alternatively spliced transcript variants encoding distinct isoforms have been described.
HTR4	This gene is a member of the family of serotonin receptors, which are G protein coupled receptors that stimulate cAMP production in response to serotonin (5-hydroxytryptamine). The gene product is a glycosylated transmembrane protein that functions in both the peripheral and central nervous system to modulate the release of various neurotransmitters. Multiple transcript variants encoding proteins with distinct C-terminal sequences have been described.
HTR5A	The neurotransmitter serotonin (5-hydroxytryptamine, 5-HT) has been implicated in a wide range of psychiatric conditions and also has vasoconstrictive and vasodilatory effects. The gene described in this record is a member of 5-hydroxytryptamine (serotonin) receptor family and encodes a multi-pass membrane protein that functions as a receptor for 5-hydroxytryptamine and couples to G-proteins. This protein has been shown to function in part through the regulation of intracellular Ca2+ mobilization.
HTR6	This gene encodes a protein that belongs to the seven-transmembrane G protein-coupled receptor family of proteins. The encoded protein couples with the Gs alpha subunit and stimulates adenylate cyclase to activate the cyclic AMP-dependent signaling pathway. This receptor is thought to regulate cholinergic neuronal transmission in the brain. Several antidepressants and antipsychotic drugs have a high affinity for this receptor.
HTR7	The neurotransmitter, serotonin, is thought to play a role in various cognitive and behavioral functions. The serotonin receptor encoded by this gene belongs to the superfamily of G protein-coupled receptors and the gene is a candidate locus for involvement in autistic disorder and other neuropsychiatric disorders. Three splice variants have been identified which encode proteins that differ in the length of their carboxy terminal ends.
HTT	Huntingtin is a disease gene linked to Huntington's disease, a neurodegenerative disorder characterized by loss of striatal neurons. This is thought to be caused by an expanded, unstable trinucleotide repeat in the huntingtin gene, which translates as a polyglutamine repeat in the protein product. A fairly broad range of trinucleotide repeats (9-35) has been identified in normal controls, and repeat numbers in excess of 40 have been described as pathological. The huntingtin locus is large, spanning 180 kb and consisting of 67 exons. The huntingtin gene is widely expressed and is required for normal development. It is expressed as 2 alternatively polyadenylated forms displaying different relative abundance in various fetal and adult tissues. The larger transcript is approximately 13.7 kb and is expressed predominantly in adult and fetal brain whereas the smaller transcript of approximately 10.3 kb is more widely expressed. The genetic defect leading to Huntington's disease may not necessarily eliminate transcription, but may confer a new property on the mRNA or alter the function of the protein. One candidate is the huntingtin-associated protein-1, highly expressed in brain, which has increased affinity for huntingtin protein with expanded polyglutamine repeats. This gene contains an upstream open reading frame in the 5' UTR that inhibits expression of the huntingtin gene product through translational repression.
HUNK	This gene is a Protein Coding gene. Predicted to enable protein serine/threonine kinase activity. Predicted to be involved in intracellular signal transduction and protein phosphorylation.
HYAL1	This gene encodes a lysosomal hyaluronidase. Hyaluronidases intracellularly degrade hyaluronan, one of the major glycosaminoglycans of the extracellular matrix. Hyaluronan is thought to be involved in cell proliferation, migration and differentiation. This enzyme is active at an acidic pH and is the major hyaluronidase in plasma. Mutations in this gene are associated with mucopolysaccharidosis type IX, or hyaluronidase deficiency. The gene is one of several related genes in a region of chromosome 3p21.3 associated with tumor suppression. Multiple transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been found for this gene.
HYOU1	The protein encoded by this gene belongs to the heat shock protein 70 family. This gene uses alternative transcription start sites. A cis-acting segment found in the 5' UTR is involved in stress-dependent induction, resulting in the accumulation of this protein in the endoplasmic reticulum (ER) under hypoxic conditions. The protein encoded by this gene is thought to play an important role in protein folding and secretion in the ER. Since suppression of the protein is associated with accelerated apoptosis, it is also suggested to have an important cytoprotective role in hypoxia-induced cellular perturbation. This protein has been shown to be up-regulated in tumors, especially in breast tumors, and thus it is associated with tumor invasiveness. This gene also has an alternative translation initiation site, resulting in a protein that lacks the N-terminal signal peptide. This signal peptide-lacking protein, which is only 3 amino acids shorter than the mature protein in the ER, is thought to have a housekeeping function in the cytosol. In rat, this protein localizes to both the ER by a carboxy-terminal peptide sequence and to mitochondria by an amino-terminal targeting signal. Alternative splicing results in multiple transcript variants.
IAPP	This gene encodes a member of the calcitonin family of peptide hormones. This hormone is released from pancreatic beta cells following food intake to regulate blood glucose levels and act as a satiation signal. Human patients with type 1 and advanced type 2 diabetes exhibit reduced levels of the encoded hormone in blood and pancreas. This protein also exhibits a bactericidal, antimicrobial activity.
IARS	Aminoacyl-tRNA synthetases catalyze the aminoacylation of tRNA by their cognate amino acid. Because of their central role in linking amino acids with nucleotide triplets contained in tRNAS, aminoacyl-tRNA synthetases are thought to be among the first proteins that appeared in evolution. Isoleucine-tRNA synthetase belongs to the class-I aminoacyl-tRNA synthetase family and has been identified as a target of autoantibodies in the autoimmune disease polymyositis/dermatomyositis. Alternatively spliced transcript variants have been found.
ICAM1	This gene encodes a cell surface glycoprotein which is typically expressed on endothelial cells and cells of the immune system. It binds to integrins of type CD11a / CD18, or CD11b / CD18 and is also exploited by Rhinovirus as a receptor.
ICAM3	The protein encoded by this gene is a member of the intercellular adhesion molecule (ICAM) family. All ICAM proteins are type I transmembrane glycoproteins, contain 2-9 immunoglobulin-like C2-type domains, and bind to the leukocyte adhesion LFA-1 protein. This protein is constitutively and abundantly expressed by all leucocytes and may be the most important ligand for LFA-1 in the initiation of the immune response. It functions not only as an adhesion molecule, but also as a potent signalling molecule. Alternative splicing results in multiple transcript variants encoding different isoforms.
ICK	Eukaryotic protein kinases are enzymes that belong to a very extensive family of proteins which share a conserved catalytic core common with both serine/threonine and tyrosine protein kinases. This gene encodes an intestinal serine/threonine kinase harboring a dual phosphorylation site found in mitogen-activating protein (MAP) kinases. The protein localizes to the intestinal crypt region and is thought to be important in intestinal epithelial cell proliferation and differentiation. Alternative splicing has been observed at this locus and two variants, encoding the same isoform, have been identified.
ICMT	This gene encodes the third of three enzymes that posttranslationally modify isoprenylated C-terminal cysteine residues in certain proteins and target those proteins to the cell membrane. This enzyme localizes to the endoplasmic reticulum. Alternative splicing may result in other transcript variants, but the biological validity of those transcripts has not been determined.
ICOS	The protein encoded by this gene belongs to the CD28 and CTLA-4 cell-surface receptor family. It forms homodimers and plays an important role in cell-cell signaling, immune responses, and regulation of cell proliferation.
ICOSLG	Ligand for the T-cell-specific cell surface receptor ICOS. Acts as a costimulatory signal for T-cell proliferation and cytokine secretion; induces also B-cell proliferation and differentiation into plasma cells. Could play an important role in mediating local tissue responses to inflammatory conditions, as well as in modulating the secondary immune response by co-stimulating memory T-cell function (By similarity).
ID1	The protein encoded by this gene is a helix-loop-helix (HLH) protein that can form heterodimers with members of the basic HLH family of transcription factors. The encoded protein has no DNA binding activity and therefore can inhibit the DNA binding and transcriptional activation ability of basic HLH proteins with which it interacts. This protein may play a role in cell growth, senescence, and differentiation. Two transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been found for this gene.
IDE	This gene encodes a zinc metallopeptidase that degrades intracellular insulin, and thereby terminates insulins activity, as well as participating in intercellular peptide signalling by degrading diverse peptides such as glucagon, amylin, bradykinin, and kallidin. The preferential affinity of this enzyme for insulin results in insulin-mediated inhibition of the degradation of other peptides such as beta-amyloid. Deficiencies in this protein's function are associated with Alzheimer's disease and type 2 diabetes mellitus but mutations in this gene have not been shown to be causitive for these diseases. This protein localizes primarily to the cytoplasm but in some cell types localizes to the extracellular space, cell membrane, peroxisome, and mitochondrion. Alternative splicing results in multiple transcript variants encoding distinct isoforms. Additional transcript variants have been described but have not been experimentally verified.
IDH1	Isocitrate dehydrogenases catalyze the oxidative decarboxylation of isocitrate to 2-oxoglutarate. These enzymes belong to two distinct subclasses, one of which utilizes NAD(+) as the electron acceptor and the other NADP(+). Five isocitrate dehydrogenases have been reported: three NAD(+)-dependent isocitrate dehydrogenases, which localize to the mitochondrial matrix, and two NADP(+)-dependent isocitrate dehydrogenases, one of which is mitochondrial and the other predominantly cytosolic. Each NADP(+)-dependent isozyme is a homodimer. The protein encoded by this gene is the NADP(+)-dependent isocitrate dehydrogenase found in the cytoplasm and peroxisomes. It contains the PTS-1 peroxisomal targeting signal sequence. The presence of this enzyme in peroxisomes suggests roles in the regeneration of NADPH for intraperoxisomal reductions, such as the conversion of 2, 4-dienoyl-CoAs to 3-enoyl-CoAs, as well as in peroxisomal reactions that consume 2-oxoglutarate, namely the alpha-hydroxylation of phytanic acid. The cytoplasmic enzyme serves a significant role in cytoplasmic NADPH production. Alternatively spliced transcript variants encoding the same protein have been found for this gene.
IDH2	Isocitrate dehydrogenases catalyze the oxidative decarboxylation of isocitrate to 2-oxoglutarate. These enzymes belong to two distinct subclasses, one of which utilizes NAD(+) as the electron acceptor and the other NADP(+). Five isocitrate dehydrogenases have been reported: three NAD(+)-dependent isocitrate dehydrogenases, which localize to the mitochondrial matrix, and two NADP(+)-dependent isocitrate dehydrogenases, one of which is mitochondrial and the other predominantly cytosolic. Each NADP(+)-dependent isozyme is a homodimer. The protein encoded by this gene is the NADP(+)-dependent isocitrate dehydrogenase found in the mitochondria. It plays a role in intermediary metabolism and energy production. This protein may tightly associate or interact with the pyruvate dehydrogenase complex. Alternative splicing results in multiple transcript variants.
IDO1	This gene encodes indoleamine 2,3-dioxygenase (IDO)
IDO2	Along with the enzymes encoded by the INDO (MIM 147435) and TDO2 (MIM 191070) genes, the enzyme encoded by the INDOL1 gene metabolizes tryptophan in the kynurenine pathway (Ball et al., 2007
IFNA1	The protein encoded by this gene is produced by macrophages and has antiviral activity. This gene is intronless and the encoded protein is secreted.
IFNAR1	The protein encoded by this gene is a type I membrane protein that forms one of the two chains of a receptor for interferons alpha and beta. Binding and activation of the receptor stimulates Janus protein kinases, which in turn phosphorylate several proteins, including STAT1 and STAT2. The encoded protein also functions as an antiviral factor.
IFNG	This gene encodes a soluble cytokine that is a member of the type II interferon class. The encoded protein is secreted by cells of both the innate and adaptive immune systems. The active protein is a homodimer that binds to the interferon gamma receptor which triggers a cellular response to viral and microbial infections. Mutations in this gene are associated with an increased susceptibility to viral, bacterial and parasitic infections and to several autoimmune diseases.
IFNGR1	This gene (IFNGR1) encodes the ligand-binding chain (alpha) of the gamma interferon receptor. Human interferon-gamma receptor is a heterodimer of IFNGR1 and IFNGR2. A genetic variation in IFNGR1 is associated with susceptibility to Helicobacter pylori infection. In addition, defects in IFNGR1 are a cause of mendelian susceptibility to mycobacterial disease, also known as familial disseminated atypical mycobacterial infection.
IGF1	The protein encoded by this gene is similar to insulin in function and structure and is a member of a family of proteins involved in mediating growth and development. The encoded protein is processed from a precursor, bound by a specific receptor, and secreted. Defects in this gene are a cause of insulin-like growth factor I deficiency. Alternative splicing results in multiple transcript variants encoding different isoforms that may undergo similar processing to generate mature protein.
IGF1R	This receptor binds insulin-like growth factor with a high affinity. It has tyrosine kinase activity. The insulin-like growth factor I receptor plays a critical role in transformation events. Cleavage of the precursor generates alpha and beta subunits. It is highly overexpressed in most malignant tissues where it functions as an anti-apoptotic agent by enhancing cell survival. Alternatively spliced transcript variants encoding distinct isoforms have been found for this gene.
IGF2	This gene encodes a member of the insulin family of polypeptide growth factors, which are involved in development and growth. It is an imprinted gene, expressed only from the paternal allele, and epigenetic changes at this locus are associated with Wilms tumour, Beckwith-Wiedemann syndrome, rhabdomyosarcoma, and Silver-Russell syndrome. A read-through INS-IGF2 gene exists, whose 5' region overlaps the INS gene and the 3' region overlaps this gene. Alternatively spliced transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been found for this gene.
IGF2R	This gene encodes a receptor for both insulin-like growth factor 2 and mannose 6-phosphate. The binding sites for each ligand are located on different segments of the protein. This receptor has various functions, including in the intracellular trafficking of lysosomal enzymes, the activation of transforming growth factor beta, and the degradation of insulin-like growth factor 2. Mutation or loss of heterozygosity of this gene has been association with risk of hepatocellular carcinoma. The orthologous mouse gene is imprinted and shows exclusive expression from the maternal allele; however, imprinting of the human gene may be polymorphic, as only a minority of individuals showed biased expression from the maternal allele (PMID:8267611).
IGFBP1	This gene is a member of the insulin-like growth factor binding protein (IGFBP) family and encodes a protein with an IGFBP N-terminal domain and a thyroglobulin type-I domain. The encoded protein, mainly expressed in the liver, circulates in the plasma and binds both insulin-like growth factors (IGFs) I and II, prolonging their half-lives and altering their interaction with cell surface receptors. This protein is important in cell migration and metabolism. Low levels of this protein may be associated with impaired glucose tolerance, vascular disease and hypertension in human patients.
IGFBP2	The protein encoded by this gene is one of six similar proteins that bind insulin-like growth factors I and II (IGF-I and IGF-II). The encoded protein can be secreted into the bloodstream, where it binds IGF-I and IGF-II with high affinity, or it can remain intracellular, interacting with many different ligands. High expression levels of this protein promote the growth of several types of tumors and may be predictive of the chances of recovery of the patient. Several transcript variants, one encoding a secreted isoform and the others encoding nonsecreted isoforms, have been found for this gene.
IGFBP3	This gene is a member of the insulin-like growth factor binding protein (IGFBP) family and encodes a protein with an IGFBP domain and a thyroglobulin type-I domain. The protein forms a ternary complex with insulin-like growth factor acid-labile subunit (IGFALS) and either insulin-like growth factor (IGF) I or II. In this form, it circulates in the plasma, prolonging the half-life of IGFs and altering their interaction with cell surface receptors. Alternate transcriptional splice variants, encoding different isoforms, have been characterized.
IGFBP4	This gene is a member of the insulin-like growth factor binding protein (IGFBP) family and encodes a protein with an IGFBP domain and a thyroglobulin type-I domain. The protein binds both insulin-like growth factors (IGFs) I and II and circulates in the plasma in both glycosylated and non-glycosylated forms. Binding of this protein prolongs the half-life of the IGFs and alters their interaction with cell surface receptors.
IGFBP5	IGF-binding proteins prolong the half-life of the IGFs and have been shown to either inhibit or stimulate the growth promoting effects of the IGFs on cell culture. They alter the interaction of IGFs with their cell surface receptors.
IGFBP6	IGF-binding proteins prolong the half-life of the IGFs and have been shown to either inhibit or stimulate the growth promoting effects of the IGFs on cell culture. They alter the interaction of IGFs with their cell surface receptors.
IK	The protein encoded by this gene was identified by its RED repeat, a stretch of repeated arginine, glutamic acid and aspartic acid residues. The protein localizes to discrete dots within the nucleus, excluding the nucleolus. Its function is unknown. This gene maps to chromosome 5; however, a pseudogene may exist on chromosome 2.
IKBKB	The protein encoded by this gene phosphorylates the inhibitor in the inhibitor/NF-kappa-B complex, causing dissociation of the inhibitor and activation of NF-kappa-B. The encoded protein itself is found in a complex of proteins. Several transcript variants, some protein-coding and some not, have been found for this gene.
IKBKE	IKBKE is a noncanonical I-kappa-B (see MIM 164008) kinase (IKK) that is essential for regulating antiviral signaling pathways. IKBKE has also been identified as a breast cancer (MIM 114480) oncogene and is amplified and overexpressed in over 30% of breast carcinomas and breast cancer cell lines (Hutti et al., 2009
IKBKG	This gene encodes the regulatory subunit of the inhibitor of kappaB kinase (IKK) complex, which activates NF-kappaB resulting in activation of genes involved in inflammation, immunity, cell survival, and other pathways. Mutations in this gene result in incontinentia pigmenti, hypohidrotic ectodermal dysplasia, and several other types of immunodeficiencies. A pseudogene highly similar to this locus is located in an adjacent region of the X chromosome.
IL10	The protein encoded by this gene is a cytokine produced primarily by monocytes and to a lesser extent by lymphocytes. This cytokine has pleiotropic effects in immunoregulation and inflammation. It down-regulates the expression of Th1 cytokines, MHC class II Ags, and costimulatory molecules on macrophages. It also enhances B cell survival, proliferation, and antibody production. This cytokine can block NF-kappa B activity, and is involved in the regulation of the JAK-STAT signaling pathway. Knockout studies in mice suggested the function of this cytokine as an essential immunoregulator in the intestinal tract. Mutations in this gene are associated with an increased susceptibility to HIV-1 infection and rheumatoid arthritis.
IL10RB	The protein encoded by this gene belongs to the cytokine receptor family. It is an accessory chain essential for the active interleukin 10 receptor complex. Coexpression of this and IL10RA proteins has been shown to be required for IL10-induced signal transduction. This gene and three other interferon receptor genes, IFAR2, IFNAR1, and IFNGR2, form a class II cytokine receptor gene cluster located in a small region on chromosome 21.
IL11RA	Interleukin 11 is a stromal cell-derived cytokine that belongs to a family of pleiotropic and redundant cytokines that use the gp130 transducing subunit in their high affinity receptors. This gene encodes the IL-11 receptor, which is a member of the hematopoietic cytokine receptor family. This particular receptor is very similar to ciliary neurotrophic factor, since both contain an extracellular region with a 2-domain structure composed of an immunoglobulin-like domain and a cytokine receptor-like domain. Multiple alternatively spliced transcript variants have been found for this gene.
IL12A	This gene encodes a subunit of a cytokine that acts on T and natural killer cells, and has a broad array of biological activities. The cytokine is a disulfide-linked heterodimer composed of the 35-kD subunit encoded by this gene, and a 40-kD subunit that is a member of the cytokine receptor family. This cytokine is required for the T-cell-independent induction of interferon (IFN)-gamma, and is important for the differentiation of both Th1 and Th2 cells. The responses of lymphocytes to this cytokine are mediated by the activator of transcription protein STAT4. Nitric oxide synthase 2A (NOS2A/NOS2) is found to be required for the signaling process of this cytokine in innate immunity.
IL12B	This gene encodes a subunit of interleukin 12, a cytokine that acts on T and natural killer cells, and has a broad array of biological activities. Interleukin 12 is a disulfide-linked heterodimer composed of the 40 kD cytokine receptor like subunit encoded by this gene, and a 35 kD subunit encoded by IL12A. This cytokine is expressed by activated macrophages that serve as an essential inducer of Th1 cells development. This cytokine has been found to be important for sustaining a sufficient number of memory/effector Th1 cells to mediate long-term protection to an intracellular pathogen. Overexpression of this gene was observed in the central nervous system of patients with multiple sclerosis (MS), suggesting a role of this cytokine in the pathogenesis of the disease. The promoter polymorphism of this gene has been reported to be associated with the severity of atopic and non-atopic asthma in children.
IL13	This gene encodes an immunoregulatory cytokine produced primarily by activated Th2 cells. This cytokine is involved in several stages of B-cell maturation and differentiation. It up-regulates CD23 and MHC class II expression, and promotes IgE isotype switching of B cells. This cytokine down-regulates macrophage activity, thereby inhibits the production of pro-inflammatory cytokines and chemokines. This cytokine is found to be critical to the pathogenesis of allergen-induced asthma but operates through mechanisms independent of IgE and eosinophils. This gene, IL3, IL5, IL4, and CSF2 form a cytokine gene cluster on chromosome 5q, with this gene particularly close to IL4.
IL13RA2	The protein encoded by this gene is closely related to Il13RA1, a subuint of the interleukin 13 receptor complex. This protein binds IL13 with high affinity, but lacks cytoplasmic domain, and does not appear to function as a signal mediator. It is reported to play a role in the internalization of IL13.
IL15	The protein encoded by this gene is a cytokine that regulates T and natural killer cell activation and proliferation. This cytokine and interleukine 2 share many biological activities. They are found to bind common hematopoietin receptor subunits, and may compete for the same receptor, and thus negatively regulate each other's activity. The number of CD8+ memory cells is shown to be controlled by a balance between this cytokine and IL2. This cytokine induces the activation of JAK kinases, as well as the phosphorylation and activation of transcription activators STAT3, STAT5, and STAT6. Studies of the mouse counterpart suggested that this cytokine may increase the expression of apoptosis inhibitor BCL2L1/BCL-x(L), possibly through the transcription activation activity of STAT6, and thus prevent apoptosis. Alternatively spliced transcript variants of this gene have been reported.
IL17A	The protein encoded by this gene is a proinflammatory cytokine produced by activated T cells. This cytokine regulates the activities of NF-kappaB and mitogen-activated protein kinases. This cytokine can stimulate the expression of IL6 and cyclooxygenase-2 (PTGS2/COX-2), as well as enhance the production of nitric oxide (NO). High levels of this cytokine are associated with several chronic inflammatory diseases including rheumatoid arthritis, psoriasis and multiple sclerosis.
IL17RA	Interleukin 17A (IL17A) is a proinflammatory cytokine secreted by activated T-lymphocytes. It is a potent inducer of the maturation of CD34-positive hematopoietic precursors into neutrophils. The transmembrane protein encoded by this gene (interleukin 17A receptor; IL17RA) is a ubiquitous type I membrane glycoprotein that binds with low affinity to interleukin 17A. Interleukin 17A and its receptor play a pathogenic role in many inflammatory and autoimmune diseases such as rheumatoid arthritis. Like other cytokine receptors, this receptor likely has a multimeric structure. Alternative splicing results in multiple transcript variants encoding different isoforms.
IL18	The protein encoded by this gene is a proinflammatory cytokine that augments natural killer cell activity in spleen cells, and stimulates interferon gamma production in T-helper type I cells. Alternatively spliced transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been found for this gene.
IL1A	The protein encoded by this gene is a member of the interleukin 1 cytokine family. This cytokine is a pleiotropic cytokine involved in various immune responses, inflammatory processes, and hematopoiesis. This cytokine is produced by monocytes and macrophages as a proprotein, which is proteolytically processed and released in response to cell injury, and thus induces apoptosis. This gene and eight other interleukin 1 family genes form a cytokine gene cluster on chromosome 2. It has been suggested that the polymorphism of these genes is associated with rheumatoid arthritis and Alzheimer's disease.
IL1B	The protein encoded by this gene is a member of the interleukin 1 cytokine family. This cytokine is produced by activated macrophages as a proprotein, which is proteolytically processed to its active form by caspase 1 (CASP1/ICE). This cytokine is an important mediator of the inflammatory response, and is involved in a variety of cellular activities, including cell proliferation, differentiation, and apoptosis. The induction of cyclooxygenase-2 (PTGS2/COX2) by this cytokine in the central nervous system (CNS) is found to contribute to inflammatory pain hypersensitivity. This gene and eight other interleukin 1 family genes form a cytokine gene cluster on chromosome 2.
IL1R1	This gene encodes a cytokine receptor that belongs to the interleukin-1 receptor family. The encoded protein is a receptor for interleukin-1 alpha, interleukin-1 beta, and interleukin-1 receptor antagonist. It is an important mediator involved in many cytokine-induced immune and inflammatory responses. This gene is located in a cluster of related cytokine receptor genes on chromosome 2q12.
IL2	The protein encoded by this gene is a secreted cytokine that is important for the proliferation of T and B lymphocytes. The receptor of this cytokine is a heterotrimeric protein complex whose gamma chain is also shared by interleukin 4 (IL4) and interleukin 7 (IL7). The expression of this gene in mature thymocytes is monoallelic, which represents an unusual regulatory mode for controlling the precise expression of a single gene. The targeted disruption of a similar gene in mice leads to ulcerative colitis-like disease, which suggests an essential role of this gene in the immune response to antigenic stimuli.
IL20	The protein encoded by this gene is a cytokine structurally related to interleukin 10 (IL10). This cytokine has been shown to transduce its signal through signal transducer and activator of transcription 3 (STAT3) in keratinocytes. A specific receptor for this cytokine is found to be expressed in skin and upregulated dramatically in psoriatic skin, suggesting a role for this protein in epidermal function and psoriasis.
IL22	This gene is a member of the IL10 family of cytokines that mediate cellular inflammatory responses. The encoded protein functions in antimicrobial defense at mucosal surfaces and in tissue repair. This protein also has pro-inflammatory properties and plays a role in in the pathogenesis of several intestinal diseases.
IL23A	This gene encodes a subunit of the heterodimeric cytokine interleukin 23 (IL23). IL23 is composed of this protein and the p40 subunit of interleukin 12 (IL12B). The receptor of IL23 is formed by the beta 1 subunit of IL12 (IL12RB1) and an IL23 specific subunit, IL23R. Both IL23 and IL12 can activate the transcription activator STAT4, and stimulate the production of interferon-gamma (IFNG). In contrast to IL12, which acts mainly on naive CD4(+) T cells, IL23 preferentially acts on memory CD4(+) T cells.
IL2RA	The interleukin 2 (IL2) receptor alpha (IL2RA) and beta (IL2RB) chains, together with the common gamma chain (IL2RG), constitute the high-affinity IL2 receptor. Homodimeric alpha chains (IL2RA) result in low-affinity receptor, while homodimeric beta (IL2RB) chains produce a medium-affinity receptor. Normally an integral-membrane protein, soluble IL2RA has been isolated and determined to result from extracellular proteolyisis. Alternately-spliced IL2RA mRNAs have been isolated, but the significance of each is presently unknown. Mutations in this gene are associated with interleukin 2 receptor alpha deficiency.
IL2RB	The interleukin 2 receptor, which is involved in T cell-mediated immune responses, is present in 3 forms with respect to ability to bind interleukin 2. The low affinity form is a monomer of the alpha subunit and is not involved in signal transduction. The intermediate affinity form consists of an alpha/beta subunit heterodimer, while the high affinity form consists of an alpha/beta/gamma subunit heterotrimer. Both the intermediate and high affinity forms of the receptor are involved in receptor-mediated endocytosis and transduction of mitogenic signals from interleukin 2. The protein encoded by this gene represents the beta subunit and is a type I membrane protein. The use of alternative promoters results in multiple transcript variants encoding the same protein. The protein is primarily expressed in the hematopoietic system. The use by some variants of an alternate promoter in an upstream long terminal repeat (LTR) results in placenta-specific expression.
IL3RA	The protein encoded by this gene is an interleukin 3 specific subunit of a heterodimeric cytokine receptor. The receptor is comprised of a ligand specific alpha subunit and a signal transducing beta subunit shared by the receptors for interleukin 3 (IL3), colony stimulating factor 2 (CSF2/GM-CSF), and interleukin 5 (IL5). The binding of this protein to IL3 depends on the beta subunit. The beta subunit is activated by the ligand binding, and is required for the biological activities of IL3. This gene and the gene encoding the colony stimulating factor 2 receptor alpha chain (CSF2RA) form a cytokine receptor gene cluster in a X-Y pseudoautosomal region on chromosomes X or Y. Alternatively spliced transcript variants encoding distinct isoforms have been found.
IL4	The protein encoded by this gene is a pleiotropic cytokine produced by activated T cells. This cytokine is a ligand for interleukin 4 receptor. The interleukin 4 receptor also binds to IL13, which may contribute to many overlapping functions of this cytokine and IL13. STAT6, a signal transducer and activator of transcription, has been shown to play a central role in mediating the immune regulatory signal of this cytokine. This gene, IL3, IL5, IL13, and CSF2 form a cytokine gene cluster on chromosome 5q, with this gene particularly close to IL13. This gene, IL13 and IL5 are found to be regulated coordinately by several long-range regulatory elements in an over 120 kilobase range on the chromosome. Two alternatively spliced transcript variants of this gene encoding distinct isoforms have been reported.
IL4R	This gene encodes the alpha chain of the interleukin-4 receptor, a type I transmembrane protein that can bind interleukin 4 and interleukin 13 to regulate IgE production. The encoded protein also can bind interleukin 4 to promote differentiation of Th2 cells. A soluble form of the encoded protein can be produced by proteolysis of the membrane-bound protein, and this soluble form can inhibit IL4-mediated cell proliferation and IL5 upregulation by T-cells. Allelic variations in this gene have been associated with atopy, a condition that can manifest itself as allergic rhinitis, sinusitus, asthma, or eczema. Polymorphisms in this gene are also associated with resistance to human immunodeficiency virus type-1 infection. Alternate splicing results in multiple transcript variants.
IL5	This gene encodes a cytokine that acts as a growth and differentiation factor for both B cells and eosinophils. The encoded cytokine plays a major role in the regulation of eosinophil formation, maturation, recruitment and survival. The increased production of this cytokine may be related to pathogenesis of eosinophil-dependent inflammatory diseases. This cytokine functions by binding to its receptor, which is a heterodimer, whose beta subunit is shared with the receptors for interleukine 3 (IL3) and colony stimulating factor 2 (CSF2/GM-CSF). This gene is located on chromosome 5 within a cytokine gene cluster which includes interleukin 4 (IL4), interleukin 13 (IL13), and CSF2 . This gene, IL4, and IL13 may be regulated coordinately by long-range regulatory elements spread over 120 kilobases on chromosome 5q31.
IL5RA	The protein encoded by this gene is an interleukin 5 specific subunit of a heterodimeric cytokine receptor. The receptor is comprised of a ligand specific alpha subunit and a signal transducing beta subunit shared by the receptors for interleukin 3 (IL3), colony stimulating factor 2 (CSF2/GM-CSF), and interleukin 5 (IL5). The binding of this protein to IL5 depends on the beta subunit. The beta subunit is activated by the ligand binding, and is required for the biological activities of IL5. This protein has been found to interact with syndecan binding protein (syntenin), which is required for IL5 mediated activation of the transcription factor SOX4. Several alternatively spliced transcript variants encoding four distinct isoforms have been reported.
IL6	This gene encodes a cytokine that functions in inflammation and the maturation of B cells. In addition, the encoded protein has been shown to be an endogenous pyrogen capable of inducing fever in people with autoimmune diseases or infections. The protein is primarily produced at sites of acute and chronic inflammation, where it is secreted into the serum and induces a transcriptional inflammatory response through interleukin 6 receptor, alpha. The functioning of this gene is implicated in a wide variety of inflammation-associated disease states, including suspectibility to diabetes mellitus and systemic juvenile rheumatoid arthritis. Alternative splicing results in multiple transcript variants.
IL6R	This gene encodes a subunit of the interleukin 6 (IL6) receptor complex. Interleukin 6 is a potent pleiotropic cytokine that regulates cell growth and differentiation and plays an important role in the immune response. The IL6 receptor is a protein complex consisting of this protein and interleukin 6 signal transducer (IL6ST/GP130/IL6-beta), a receptor subunit also shared by many other cytokines. Dysregulated production of IL6 and this receptor are implicated in the pathogenesis of many diseases, such as multiple myeloma, autoimmune diseases and prostate cancer. Alternatively spliced transcript variants encoding distinct isoforms have been reported. A pseudogene of this gene is found on chromosome 9.
IL6ST	The protein encoded by this gene is a signal transducer shared by many cytokines, including interleukin 6 (IL6), ciliary neurotrophic factor (CNTF), leukemia inhibitory factor (LIF), and oncostatin M (OSM). This protein functions as a part of the cytokine receptor complex. The activation of this protein is dependent upon the binding of cytokines to their receptors. vIL6, a protein related to IL6 and encoded by the Kaposi sarcoma-associated herpesvirus, can bypass the interleukin 6 receptor (IL6R) and directly activate this protein. Knockout studies in mice suggest that this gene plays a critical role in regulating myocyte apoptosis. Alternatively spliced transcript variants have been described. A related pseudogene has been identified on chromosome 17.
IL9	The protein encoded by this gene is a cytokine that acts as a regulator of a variety of hematopoietic cells. This cytokine stimulates cell proliferation and prevents apoptosis. It functions through the interleukin 9 receptor (IL9R), which activates different signal transducer and activator (STAT) proteins and thus connects this cytokine to various biological processes. The gene encoding this cytokine has been identified as a candidate gene for asthma. Genetic studies on a mouse model of asthma demonstrated that this cytokine is a determining factor in the pathogenesis of bronchial hyperresponsiveness.
ILK	This gene encodes a protein with a kinase-like domain and four ankyrin-like repeats. The encoded protein associates at the cell membrane with the cytoplasmic domain of beta integrins, where it regulates integrin-mediated signal transduction. Activity of this protein is important in the epithelial to mesenchymal transition, and over-expression of this gene is implicated in tumor growth and metastasis. Alternative splicing results in multiple transcript variants.
IMPA1	This gene encodes an enzyme that dephosphorylates myo-inositol monophosphate to generate free myo-inositol, a precursor of phosphatidylinositol, and is therefore an important modulator of intracellular signal transduction via the production of the second messengers myoinositol 1,4,5-trisphosphate and diacylglycerol. This enzyme can also use myo-inositol-1,3-diphosphate, myo-inositol-1,4-diphosphate, scyllo-inositol-phosphate, glucose-1-phosphate, glucose-6-phosphate, fructose-1-phosphate, beta-glycerophosphate, and 2'-AMP as substrates. This enzyme shows magnesium-dependent phosphatase activity and is inhibited by therapeutic concentrations of lithium. Inhibition of inositol monophosphate hydroylosis and subsequent depletion of inositol for phosphatidylinositol synthesis may explain the anti-manic and anti-depressive effects of lithium administered to treat bipolar disorder. Alternative splicing results in multiple transcript variants encoding distinct isoforms. A pseudogene of this gene is also present on chromosome 8q21.13.
IMPDH1	The protein encoded by this gene acts as a homotetramer to regulate cell growth. The encoded protein is an enzyme that catalyzes the synthesis of xanthine monophosphate (XMP) from inosine-5'-monophosphate (IMP). This is the rate-limiting step in the de novo synthesis of guanine nucleotides. Defects in this gene are a cause of retinitis pigmentosa type 10 (RP10). Several transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been found for this gene.
IMPDH2	This gene encodes the rate-limiting enzyme in the de novo guanine nucleotide biosynthesis. It is thus involved in maintaining cellular guanine deoxy- and ribonucleotide pools needed for DNA and RNA synthesis. The encoded protein catalyzes the NAD-dependent oxidation of inosine-5'-monophosphate into xanthine-5'-monophosphate, which is then converted into guanosine-5'-monophosphate. This gene is up-regulated in some neoplasms, suggesting it may play a role in malignant transformation.
ING2	This gene is a member of the inhibitor of growth (ING) family. Members of the ING family associate with and modulate the activity of histone acetyltransferase (HAT) and histone deacetylase (HDAC) complexes and function in DNA repair and apoptosis. Alternative splicing results in multiple transcript variants.
INHBA	This gene encodes a member of the TGF-beta (transforming growth factor-beta) superfamily of proteins. The encoded preproprotein is proteolytically processed to generate a subunit of the dimeric activin and inhibin protein complexes. These complexes activate and inhibit, respectively, follicle stimulating hormone secretion from the pituitary gland. The encoded protein also plays a role in eye, tooth and testis development. Elevated expression of this gene may be associated with cancer cachexia in human patients.
INMT	N-methylation of endogenous and xenobiotic compounds is a major method by which they are degraded. This gene encodes an enzyme that N-methylates indoles such as tryptamine. Alternative splicing results in multiple transcript variants. Read-through transcription also exists between this gene and the downstream MINDY4 (aka FAM188B) gene. In rodents and other mammals such as cetartiodactyla this gene is in the opposite orientation compared to its orientation in human and other primates and this gene appears to have been lost in carnivora and chiroptera.
INPP5A	The protein encoded by this gene is a membrane-associated type I inositol 1,4,5-trisphosphate (InsP3) 5-phosphatase. InsP3 5-phosphatases hydrolyze Ins(1,4,5)P3, which mobilizes intracellular calcium and acts as a second messenger mediating cell responses to various stimulation.
INPP5D	This gene is a member of the inositol polyphosphate-5-phosphatase (INPP5) family and encodes a protein with an N-terminal SH2 domain, an inositol phosphatase domain, and two C-terminal protein interaction domains. Expression of this protein is restricted to hematopoietic cells where its movement from the cytosol to the plasma membrane is mediated by tyrosine phosphorylation. At the plasma membrane, the protein hydrolyzes the 5' phosphate from phosphatidylinositol (3,4,5)-trisphosphate and inositol-1,3,4,5-tetrakisphosphate, thereby affecting multiple signaling pathways. The protein is also partly localized to the nucleus, where it may be involved in nuclear inositol phosphate signaling processes. Overall, the protein functions as a negative regulator of myeloid cell proliferation and survival. Mutations in this gene are associated with defects and cancers of the immune system. Alternative splicing of this gene results in multiple transcript variants.
INPPL1	The protein encoded by this gene is an SH2-containing 5'-inositol phosphatase that is involved in the regulation of insulin function. The encoded protein also plays a role in the regulation of epidermal growth factor receptor turnover and actin remodelling. Additionally, this gene supports metastatic growth in breast cancer and is a valuable biomarker for breast cancer.
INS	This gene encodes insulin, a peptide hormone that plays a vital role in the regulation of carbohydrate and lipid metabolism. After removal of the precursor signal peptide, proinsulin is post-translationally cleaved into three peptides: the B chain and A chain peptides, which are covalently linked via two disulfide bonds to form insulin, and C-peptide. Binding of insulin to the insulin receptor (INSR) stimulates glucose uptake. A multitude of mutant alleles with phenotypic effects have been identified. There is a read-through gene, INS-IGF2, which overlaps with this gene at the 5' region and with the IGF2 gene at the 3' region. Alternative splicing results in multiple transcript variants.
INSR	This gene encodes a member of the receptor tyrosine kinase family of proteins. The encoded preproprotein is proteolytically processed to generate alpha and beta subunits that form a heterotetrameric receptor. Binding of insulin or other ligands to this receptor activates the insulin signaling pathway, which regulates glucose uptake and release, as well as the synthesis and storage of carbohydrates, lipids and protein. Mutations in this gene underlie the inherited severe insulin resistance syndromes including type A insulin resistance syndrome, Donohue syndrome and Rabson-Mendenhall syndrome. Alternative splicing results in multiple transcript variants.
INSRR	Receptor with tyrosine-protein kinase activity. Functions as a pH sensing receptor which is activated by increased extracellular pH. Activates an intracellular signaling pathway that involves IRS1 and AKT1/PKB.
IRAK1	This gene encodes the interleukin-1 receptor-associated kinase 1, one of two putative serine/threonine kinases that become associated with the interleukin-1 receptor (IL1R) upon stimulation. This gene is partially responsible for IL1-induced upregulation of the transcription factor NF-kappa B. Alternatively spliced transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been found for this gene.
IRAK3	This gene encodes a member of the interleukin-1 receptor-associated kinase protein family. Members of this family are essential components of the Toll/IL-R immune signal transduction pathways. This protein is primarily expressed in monocytes and macrophages and functions as a negative regulator of Toll-like receptor signaling. Mutations in this gene are associated with a susceptibility to asthma. Alternate splicing results in multiple transcript variants.
IRAK4	This gene encodes a kinase that activates NF-kappaB in both the Toll-like receptor (TLR) and T-cell receptor (TCR) signaling pathways. The protein is essential for most innate immune responses. Mutations in this gene result in IRAK4 deficiency and recurrent invasive pneumococcal disease. Multiple transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been found for this gene.
ITGA1	This gene encodes the alpha 1 subunit of integrin receptors. This protein heterodimerizes with the beta 1 subunit to form a cell-surface receptor for collagen and laminin. The heterodimeric receptor is involved in cell-cell adhesion and may play a role in inflammation and fibrosis. The alpha 1 subunit contains an inserted (I) von Willebrand factor type I domain which is thought to be involved in collagen binding.
ITGA10	Integrins are integral transmembrane glycoproteins composed of noncovalently linked alpha and beta chains. They participate in cell adhesion as well as cell-surface mediated signalling. This gene encodes an integrin alpha chain and is expressed at high levels in chondrocytes, where it is transcriptionally regulated by AP-2epsilon and Ets-1. The protein encoded by this gene binds to collagen. Alternative splicing results in multiple transcript variants.
ITGA11	This gene encodes an alpha integrin. Integrins are heterodimeric integral membrane proteins composed of an alpha chain and a beta chain. This protein contains an I domain, is expressed in muscle tissue, dimerizes with beta 1 integrin in vitro, and appears to bind collagen in this form. Therefore, the protein may be involved in attaching muscle tissue to the extracellular matrix. Alternative transcriptional splice variants have been found for this gene, but their biological validity is not determined.
ITGA2	This gene encodes the alpha subunit of a transmembrane receptor for collagens and related proteins. The encoded protein forms a heterodimer with a beta subunit and mediates the adhesion of platelets and other cell types to the extracellular matrix. Loss of the encoded protein is associated with bleeding disorder platelet-type 9. Antibodies against this protein are found in several immune disorders, including neonatal alloimmune thrombocytopenia. This gene is located adjacent to a related alpha subunit gene. Alternative splicing results in multiple transcript variants.
ITGA2B	This gene encodes a member of the integrin alpha chain family of proteins. The encoded preproprotein is proteolytically processed to generate light and heavy chains that associate through disulfide linkages to form a subunit of the alpha-IIb/beta-3 integrin cell adhesion receptor. This receptor plays a crucial role in the blood coagulation system, by mediating platelet aggregation. Mutations in this gene are associated with platelet-type bleeding disorders, which are characterized by a failure of platelet aggregation, including Glanzmann thrombasthenia.
ITGA3	The gene encodes a member of the integrin alpha chain family of proteins. Integrins are heterodimeric integral membrane proteins composed of an alpha chain and a beta chain that function as cell surface adhesion molecules. The encoded preproprotein is proteolytically processed to generate light and heavy chains that comprise the alpha 3 subunit. This subunit joins with a beta 1 subunit to form an integrin that interacts with extracellular matrix proteins including members of the laminin family. Expression of this gene may be correlated with breast cancer metastasis.
ITGA4	The gene encodes a member of the integrin alpha chain family of proteins. Integrins are heterodimeric integral membrane proteins composed of an alpha chain and a beta chain that function in cell surface adhesion and signaling. The encoded preproprotein is proteolytically processed to generate light and heavy chains that comprise the alpha 4 subunit. This subunit associates with a beta 1 or beta 7 subunit to form an integrin that may play a role in cell motility and migration. This integrin is a therapeutic target for the treatment of multiple sclerosis, Crohn's disease and inflammatory bowel disease. Alternative splicing results in multiple transcript variants.
ITGA5	The product of this gene belongs to the integrin alpha chain family. Integrins are heterodimeric integral membrane proteins composed of an alpha subunit and a beta subunit that function in cell surface adhesion and signaling. The encoded preproprotein is proteolytically processed to generate light and heavy chains that comprise the alpha 5 subunit. This subunit associates with the beta 1 subunit to form a fibronectin receptor. This integrin may promote tumor invasion, and higher expression of this gene may be correlated with shorter survival time in lung cancer patients. Note that the integrin alpha 5 and integrin alpha V subunits are encoded by distinct genes.
ITGA6	The gene encodes a member of the integrin alpha chain family of proteins. Integrins are heterodimeric integral membrane proteins composed of an alpha chain and a beta chain that function in cell surface adhesion and signaling. The encoded preproprotein is proteolytically processed to generate light and heavy chains that comprise the alpha 6 subunit. This subunit may associate with a beta 1 or beta 4 subunit to form an integrin that interacts with extracellular matrix proteins including members of the laminin family. The alpha 6 beta 4 integrin may promote tumorigenesis, while the alpha 6 beta 1 integrin may negatively regulate erbB2/HER2 signaling. Alternative splicing results in multiple transcript variants.
ITGA9	This gene encodes an alpha integrin. Integrins are heterodimeric integral membrane glycoproteins composed of an alpha chain and a beta chain that mediate cell-cell and cell-matrix adhesion. The protein encoded by this gene, when bound to the beta 1 chain, forms an integrin that is a receptor for VCAM1, cytotactin and osteopontin. Expression of this gene has been found to be upregulated in small cell lung cancers.
ITGAL	ITGAL encodes the integrin alpha L chain. Integrins are heterodimeric integral membrane proteins composed of an alpha chain and a beta chain. This I-domain containing alpha integrin combines with the beta 2 chain (ITGB2) to form the integrin lymphocyte function-associated antigen-1 (LFA-1), which is expressed on all leukocytes. LFA-1 plays a central role in leukocyte intercellular adhesion through interactions with its ligands, ICAMs 1-3 (intercellular adhesion molecules 1 through 3), and also functions in lymphocyte costimulatory signaling. Two transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been found for this gene.
ITGAM	This gene encodes the integrin alpha M chain. Integrins are heterodimeric integral membrane proteins composed of an alpha chain and a beta chain. This I-domain containing alpha integrin combines with the beta 2 chain (ITGB2) to form a leukocyte-specific integrin referred to as macrophage receptor 1 ('Mac-1'), or inactivated-C3b (iC3b) receptor 3 ('CR3'). The alpha M beta 2 integrin is important in the adherence of neutrophils and monocytes to stimulated endothelium, and also in the phagocytosis of complement coated particles. Multiple transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been found for this gene.
ITGAV	The product of this gene belongs to the integrin alpha chain family. Integrins are heterodimeric integral membrane proteins composed of an alpha subunit and a beta subunit that function in cell surface adhesion and signaling. The encoded preproprotein is proteolytically processed to generate light and heavy chains that comprise the alpha V subunit. This subunit associates with beta 1, beta 3, beta 5, beta 6 and beta 8 subunits. The heterodimer consisting of alpha V and beta 3 subunits is also known as the vitronectin receptor. This integrin may regulate angiogenesis and cancer progression. Alternative splicing results in multiple transcript variants. Note that the integrin alpha 5 and integrin alpha V subunits are encoded by distinct genes.
ITGB1	Integrins are heterodimeric proteins made up of alpha and beta subunits. At least 18 alpha and 8 beta subunits have been described in mammals. Integrin family members are membrane receptors involved in cell adhesion and recognition in a variety of processes including embryogenesis, hemostasis, tissue repair, immune response and metastatic diffusion of tumor cells. This gene encodes a beta subunit. Multiple alternatively spliced transcript variants which encode different protein isoforms have been found for this gene.
ITGB2	This gene encodes an integrin beta chain, which combines with multiple different alpha chains to form different integrin heterodimers. Integrins are integral cell-surface proteins that participate in cell adhesion as well as cell-surface mediated signalling. The encoded protein plays an important role in immune response and defects in this gene cause leukocyte adhesion deficiency. Alternative splicing results in multiple transcript variants.
ITGB3	The ITGB3 protein product is the integrin beta chain beta 3. Integrins are integral cell-surface proteins composed of an alpha chain and a beta chain. A given chain may combine with multiple partners resulting in different integrins. Integrin beta 3 is found along with the alpha IIb chain in platelets. Integrins are known to participate in cell adhesion as well as cell-surface mediated signalling.
ITGB7	This gene encodes a protein that is a member of the integrin superfamily. Members of this family are adhesion receptors that function in signaling from the extracellular matrix to the cell. Integrins are heterodimeric integral membrane proteins composed of an alpha chain and a beta chain. The encoded protein forms dimers with an alpha4 chain or an alphaE chain and plays a role in leukocyte adhesion. Dimerization with alpha4 forms a homing receptor for migration of lymphocytes to the intestinal mucosa and Peyer's patches. Dimerization with alphaE permits binding to the ligand epithelial cadherin, a calcium-dependent adhesion molecule. Alternate splicing results in multiple transcript variants. Additional alternatively spliced transcript variants of this gene have been described, but their full-length nature is not known.
ITK	This gene encodes an intracellular tyrosine kinase expressed in T-cells. The protein contains both SH2 and SH3 domains which are often found in intracellular kinases. It is thought to play a role in T-cell proliferation and differentiation.
ITPK1	This gene encodes an enzyme that belongs to the inositol 1,3,4-trisphosphate 5/6-kinase family. This enzyme regulates the synthesis of inositol tetraphosphate, and downstream products, inositol pentakisphosphate and inositol hexakisphosphate. Inositol metabolism plays a role in the development of the neural tube. Disruptions in this gene are thought to be associated with neural tube defects. A pseudogene of this gene has been identified on chromosome X.
ITPKB	The protein encoded by this protein regulates inositol phosphate metabolism by phosphorylation of second messenger inositol 1,4,5-trisphosphate to Ins(1,3,4,5)P4. The activity of this encoded protein is responsible for regulating the levels of a large number of inositol polyphosphates that are important in cellular signaling. Both calcium/calmodulin and protein phosphorylation mechanisms control its activity.
ITPR1	This gene encodes an intracellular receptor for inositol 1,4,5-trisphosphate. Upon stimulation by inositol 1,4,5-trisphosphate, this receptor mediates calcium release from the endoplasmic reticulum. Mutations in this gene cause spinocerebellar ataxia type 15, a disease associated with an heterogeneous group of cerebellar disorders. Multiple transcript variants have been identified for this gene.
ITPR2	The protein encoded by this gene belongs to the inositol 1,4,5-triphosphate receptor family, whose members are second messenger intracellular calcium release channels. These proteins mediate a rise in cytoplasmic calcium in response to receptor activated production of inositol triphosphate. Inositol triphosphate receptor-mediated signaling is involved in many processes including cell migration, cell division, smooth muscle contraction, and neuronal signaling. This protein is a type 2 receptor that consists of a cytoplasmic amino-terminus that binds inositol triphosphate, six membrane-spanning helices that contribute to the ion pore, and a short cytoplasmic carboxy-terminus. A mutation in this gene has been associated with anhidrosis, suggesting that intracellular calcium release mediated by this protein is required for eccrine sweat production.
ITPR3	This gene encodes a receptor for inositol 1,4,5-trisphosphate, a second messenger that mediates the release of intracellular calcium. The receptor contains a calcium channel at the C-terminus and the ligand-binding site at the N-terminus. Knockout studies in mice suggest that type 2 and type 3 inositol 1,4,5-trisphosphate receptors play a key role in exocrine secretion underlying energy metabolism and growth.
JAG1	The jagged 1 protein encoded by JAG1 is the human homolog of the Drosophilia jagged protein.  Human jagged 1 is the ligand for the receptor notch 1, the latter a human homolog of the Drosophilia jagged receptor notch.  Mutations that alter the jagged 1 protein cause Alagille syndrome.  Jagged 1 signalling through notch 1 has also been shown to play a role in hematopoiesis.
JAK1	This gene encodes a membrane protein that is a member of a class of protein-tyrosine kinases (PTK) characterized by the presence of a second phosphotransferase-related domain immediately N-terminal to the PTK domain. The encoded kinase phosphorylates STAT proteins (signal transducers and activators of transcription) and plays a key role in interferon-alpha/beta and interferon-gamma signal transduction. Alternative splicing results in multiple transcript variants.
JAK2	This gene product is a protein tyrosine kinase involved in a specific subset of cytokine receptor signaling pathways. It has been found to be constituitively associated with the prolactin receptor and is required for responses to gamma interferon. Mice that do not express an active protein for this gene exhibit embryonic lethality associated with the absence of definitive erythropoiesis.
JAK3	The protein encoded by this gene is a member of the Janus kinase (JAK) family of tyrosine kinases involved in cytokine receptor-mediated intracellular signal transduction. It is predominantly expressed in immune cells and transduces a signal in response to its activation via tyrosine phosphorylation by interleukin receptors. Mutations in this gene are associated with autosomal SCID (severe combined immunodeficiency disease).
JMJD1C	The protein encoded by this gene interacts with thyroid hormone receptors and contains a jumonji domain. It is a candidate histone demethylase and is thought to be a coactivator for key transcription factors. It plays a role in the DNA-damage response pathway by demethylating the mediator of DNA damage checkpoint 1 (MDC1) protein, and is required for the survival of acute myeloid leukemia. Mutations in this gene are associated with Rett syndrome and intellectual disability. Alternative splicing results in multiple transcript variants.
JUN	This gene is the putative transforming gene of avian sarcoma virus 17. It encodes a protein which is highly similar to the viral protein, and which interacts directly with specific target DNA sequences to regulate gene expression. This gene is intronless and is mapped to 1p32-p31, a chromosomal region involved in both translocations and deletions in human malignancies.
KARS	Aminoacyl-tRNA synthetases are a class of enzymes that charge tRNAs with their cognate amino acids. Lysyl-tRNA synthetase is a homodimer localized to the cytoplasm which belongs to the class II family of tRNA synthetases. It has been shown to be a target of autoantibodies in the human autoimmune diseases, polymyositis or dermatomyositis. Alternatively spliced transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been found for this gene.
KAT2A	KAT2A, or GCN5, is a histone acetyltransferase (HAT) that functions primarily as a transcriptional activator. It also functions as a repressor of NF-kappa-B (see MIM 164011) by promoting ubiquitination of the NF-kappa-B subunit RELA (MIM 164014) in a HAT-independent manner (Mao et al., 2009
KAT2B	CBP and p300 are large nuclear proteins that bind to many sequence-specific factors involved in cell growth and/or differentiation, including c-jun and the adenoviral oncoprotein E1A. The protein encoded by this gene associates with p300/CBP. It has in vitro and in vivo binding activity with CBP and p300, and competes with E1A for binding sites in p300/CBP. It has histone acetyl transferase activity with core histones and nucleosome core particles, indicating that this protein plays a direct role in transcriptional regulation.
KAT5	The protein encoded by this gene belongs to the MYST family of histone acetyl transferases (HATs) and was originally isolated as an HIV-1 TAT-interactive protein. HATs play important roles in regulating chromatin remodeling, transcription and other nuclear processes by acetylating histone and nonhistone proteins. This protein is a histone acetylase that has a role in DNA repair and apoptosis and is thought to play an important role in signal transduction. Alternative splicing of this gene results in multiple transcript variants.
KAT6A	This gene encodes a member of the MOZ, YBFR2, SAS2, TIP60 family of histone acetyltransferases. The protein is composed of a nuclear localization domain, a double C2H2 zinc finger domain that binds to acetylated histone tails, a histone acetyl-transferase domain, a glutamate/aspartate-rich region, and a serine- and methionine-rich transactivation domain. It is part of a complex that acetylates lysine-9 residues in histone 3, and in addition, it acts as a co-activator for several transcription factors. Allelic variants of this gene are associated with an autosomal dominant form of cognitive disability. Chromosomal translocations of this gene are associated with acute myeloid leukemia. Alternative splicing results in multiple transcript variants.
KAT6B	The protein encoded by this gene is a histone acetyltransferase and component of the MOZ/MORF protein complex. In addition to its acetyltransferase activity, the encoded protein has transcriptional activation activity in its N-terminal end and transcriptional repression activity in its C-terminal end. This protein is necessary for RUNX2-dependent transcriptional activation and could be involved in brain development. Mutations have been found in patients with genitopatellar syndrome. A translocation of this gene and the CREBBP gene results in acute myeloid leukemias. Three transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been found for this gene.
KAT7	The protein encoded by this gene is part of the multimeric HBO1 complex, which possesses histone H4-specific acetyltransferase activity. This activity is required for functional replication origins and is involved in transcriptional activation of some genes. In both cases, the acetylation of histone H4 helps unfold chromatin so that the DNA can be accessed and replicated or transcribed.
KAT8	This gene encodes a member of the MYST histone acetylase protein family. The encoded protein has a characteristic MYST domain containing an acetyl-CoA-binding site, a chromodomain typical of proteins which bind histones, and a C2HC-type zinc finger. Multiple transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been found for this gene.
KATNA1	Microtubules, polymers of alpha and beta tubulin subunits, form the mitotic spindle of a dividing cell and help to organize membranous organelles during interphase. Katanin is a heterodimer that consists of a 60 kDa ATPase (p60 subunit A 1) and an 80 kDa accessory protein (p80 subunit B 1). The p60 subunit acts to sever and disassemble microtubules, while the p80 subunit targets the enzyme to the centrosome. This gene encodes the p80 subunit. This protein is a member of the AAA family of ATPases. Multiple alternatively spliced variants, encoding the same protein, have been identified.
KATNB1	Microtubules, polymers of alpha and beta tubulin subunits, form the mitotic spindle of a dividing cell and help to organize membranous organelles during interphase. Katanin is a heterodimer that consists of a 60 kDa ATPase (p60 subunit A 1) and an 80 kDa accessory protein (p80 subunit B 1). The p60 subunit acts to sever and disassemble microtubules, while the p80 subunit targets the enzyme to the centrosome. Katanin is a member of the AAA family of ATPases.
KCNA1	This gene encodes a voltage-gated delayed potassium channel that is phylogenetically related to the Drosophila Shaker channel. The encoded protein has six putative transmembrane segments (S1-S6), and the loop between S5 and S6 forms the pore and contains the conserved selectivity filter motif (GYGD). The functional channel is a homotetramer. The N-terminus of the channel is associated with beta subunits that can modify the inactivation properties of the channel as well as affect expression levels. The C-terminus of the channel is complexed to a PDZ domain protein that is responsible for channel targeting. Mutations in this gene have been associated with myokymia with periodic ataxia (AEMK).
KCNA2	Potassium channels represent the most complex class of voltage-gated ion channels from both functional and structural standpoints. Their diverse functions include regulating neurotransmitter release, heart rate, insulin secretion, neuronal excitability, epithelial electrolyte transport, smooth muscle contraction, and cell volume. Four sequence-related potassium channel genes
KCNA3	Potassium channels represent the most complex class of voltage-gated ion channels from both functional and structural standpoints. Their diverse functions include regulating neurotransmitter release, heart rate, insulin secretion, neuronal excitability, epithelial electrolyte transport, smooth muscle contraction, and cell volume. Four sequence-related potassium channel genes
KCNA4	Potassium channels represent the most complex class of voltage-gated ion channels from both functional and structural standpoints. Their diverse functions include regulating neurotransmitter release, heart rate, insulin secretion, neuronal excitability, epithelial electrolyte transport, smooth muscle contraction, and cell volume. Four sequence-related potassium channel genes
KCNA5	Potassium channels represent the most complex class of voltage-gated ino channels from both functional and structural standpoints. Their diverse functions include regulating neurotransmitter release, heart rate, insulin secretion, neuronal excitability, epithelial electrolyte transport, smooth muscle contraction, and cell volume. Four sequence-related potassium channel genes
KCNA6	Potassium channels represent the most complex class of voltage-gated ion channels from both functional and structural standpoints. Their diverse functions include regulating neurotransmitter release, heart rate, insulin secretion, neuronal excitability, epithelial electrolyte transport, smooth muscle contraction, and cell volume. Four sequence-related potassium channel genes
KCNA7	Potassium channels represent the most complex class of voltage-gated ion channels from both functional and structural standpoints. Their diverse functions include regulating neurotransmitter release, heart rate, insulin secretion, neuronal excitability, epithelial electrolyte transport, smooth muscle contraction, and cell volume. Four sequence-related potassium channel genes
KCNAB1	Potassium channels represent the most complex class of voltage-gated ion channels from both functional and structural standpoints. Their diverse functions include regulating neurotransmitter release, heart rate, insulin secretion, neuronal excitability, epithelial electrolyte transport, smooth muscle contraction, and cell volume. Four sequence-related potassium channel genes
KCNB1	Voltage-gated potassium (Kv) channels represent the most complex class of voltage-gated ion channels from both functional and structural standpoints. Their diverse functions include regulating neurotransmitter release, heart rate, insulin secretion, neuronal excitability, epithelial electrolyte transport, smooth muscle contraction, and cell volume. Four sequence-related potassium channel genes
KCNB2	Voltage-gated potassium (Kv) channels represent the most complex class of voltage-gated ion channels from both functional and structural standpoints. Their diverse functions include regulating neurotransmitter release, heart rate, insulin secretion, neuronal excitability, epithelial electrolyte transport, smooth muscle contraction, and cell volume. Four sequence-related potassium channel genes
KCNC1	This gene encodes a member of a family of integral membrane proteins that mediate the voltage-dependent potassium ion permeability of excitable membranes. Alternative splicing is thought to result in two transcript variants encoding isoforms that differ at their C-termini. These isoforms have had conflicting names in the literature: the longer isoform has been called both "b" and "alpha", while the shorter isoform has been called both "a" and "beta" (PMIDs 1432046, 12091563).
KCND2	Voltage-gated potassium (Kv) channels represent the most complex class of voltage-gated ion channels from both functional and structural standpoints. Their diverse functions include regulating neurotransmitter release, heart rate, insulin secretion, neuronal excitability, epithelial electrolyte transport, smooth muscle contraction, and cell volume. Four sequence-related potassium channel genes
KCND3	Voltage-gated potassium (Kv) channels represent the most complex class of voltage-gated ion channels from both functional and structural standpoints. Their diverse functions include regulating neurotransmitter release, heart rate, insulin secretion, neuronal excitability, epithelial electrolyte transport, smooth muscle contraction, and cell volume. Four sequence-related potassium channel genes
KCNE1	The product of this gene belongs to the potassium channel KCNE family. Potassium ion channels are essential to many cellular functions and show a high degree of diversity, varying in their electrophysiologic and pharmacologic properties. This gene encodes a transmembrane protein known to associate with the product of the KVLQT1 gene to form the delayed rectifier potassium channel. Mutation in this gene are associated with both Jervell and Lange-Nielsen and Romano-Ward forms of long-QT syndrome. Alternatively spliced transcript variants encoding the same protein have been identified.
KCNH2	This gene encodes a voltage-activated potassium channel belonging to the eag family. It shares sequence similarity with the Drosophila ether-a-go-go (eag) gene. Mutations in this gene can cause long QT syndrome type 2 (LQT2). Transcript variants encoding distinct isoforms have been identified.
KCNH3	The protein encoded by this gene is a voltage-gated potassium channel alpha subunit predominantly expressed in the forebrain. Studies in mice have found that cognitive function increases when this gene is knocked out. In humans, the encoded protein has been shown to be capable of binding glycoprotein 120 of the human immunodeficiency virus type 1 (HIV-1) envelope. Two transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been found for this gene.
KCNIP2	This gene encodes a member of the family of voltage-gated potassium (Kv) channel-interacting proteins (KCNIPs), which belongs to the recoverin branch of the EF-hand superfamily. Members of the KCNIP family are small calcium binding proteins. They all have EF-hand-like domains, and differ from each other in the N-terminus. They are integral subunit components of native Kv4 channel complexes. They may regulate A-type currents, and hence neuronal excitability, in response to changes in intracellular calcium. Multiple alternatively spliced transcript variants encoding distinct isoforms have been identified from this gene.
KCNJ1	Potassium channels are present in most mammalian cells, where they participate in a wide range of physiologic responses. The protein encoded by this gene is an integral membrane protein and inward-rectifier type potassium channel. It is activated by internal ATP and probably plays an important role in potassium homeostasis. The encoded protein has a greater tendency to allow potassium to flow into a cell rather than out of a cell. Mutations in this gene have been associated with antenatal Bartter syndrome, which is characterized by salt wasting, hypokalemic alkalosis, hypercalciuria, and low blood pressure. Multiple transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been found for this gene.
KCNJ10	This gene encodes a member of the inward rectifier-type potassium channel family, characterized by having a greater tendency to allow potassium to flow into, rather than out of, a cell. The encoded protein may form a heterodimer with another potassium channel protein and may be responsible for the potassium buffering action of glial cells in the brain. Mutations in this gene have been associated with seizure susceptibility of common idiopathic generalized epilepsy syndromes.
KCNJ11	Potassium channels are present in most mammalian cells, where they participate in a wide range of physiologic responses. The protein encoded by this gene is an integral membrane protein and inward-rectifier type potassium channel. The encoded protein, which has a greater tendency to allow potassium to flow into a cell rather than out of a cell, is controlled by G-proteins and is found associated with the sulfonylurea receptor SUR. Mutations in this gene are a cause of familial persistent hyperinsulinemic hypoglycemia of infancy (PHHI), an autosomal recessive disorder characterized by unregulated insulin secretion. Defects in this gene may also contribute to autosomal dominant non-insulin-dependent diabetes mellitus type II (NIDDM), transient neonatal diabetes mellitus type 3 (TNDM3), and permanent neonatal diabetes mellitus (PNDM). Multiple alternatively spliced transcript variants that encode different protein isoforms have been described for this gene.
KCNJ13	This gene encodes a member of the inwardly rectifying potassium channel family of proteins. Members of this family form ion channel pores that allow potassium ions to pass into a cell. The encoded protein belongs to a subfamily of low signal channel conductance proteins that have a low dependence on potassium concentration. Mutations in this gene are associated with snowflake vitreoretinal degeneration. Alternate splicing results in multiple transcript variants.
KCNJ2	Potassium channels are present in most mammalian cells, where they participate in a wide range of physiologic responses. The protein encoded by this gene is an integral membrane protein and inward-rectifier type potassium channel. The encoded protein, which has a greater tendency to allow potassium to flow into a cell rather than out of a cell, probably participates in establishing action potential waveform and excitability of neuronal and muscle tissues. Mutations in this gene have been associated with Andersen syndrome, which is characterized by periodic paralysis, cardiac arrhythmias, and dysmorphic features.
KCNJ4	Several different potassium channels are known to be involved with electrical signaling in the nervous system. One class is activated by depolarization whereas a second class is not. The latter are referred to as inwardly rectifying K+ channels, and they have a greater tendency to allow potassium to flow into the cell rather than out of it. This asymmetry in potassium ion conductance plays a key role in the excitability of muscle cells and neurons. The protein encoded by this gene is an integral membrane protein and member of the inward rectifier potassium channel family. The encoded protein has a small unitary conductance compared to other members of this protein family. Two transcript variants encoding the same protein have been found for this gene.
KCNJ5	This gene encodes an integral membrane protein which belongs to one of seven subfamilies of inward-rectifier potassium channel proteins called potassium channel subfamily J. The encoded protein is a subunit of the potassium channel which is homotetrameric. It is controlled by G-proteins and has a greater tendency to allow potassium to flow into a cell rather than out of a cell. Naturally occurring mutations in this gene are associated with aldosterone-producing adenomas.
KCNJ6	This gene encodes a member of the G protein-coupled inwardly-rectifying potassium channel family of inward rectifier potassium channels. This type of potassium channel allows a greater flow of potassium into the cell than out of it. These proteins modulate many physiological processes, including heart rate in cardiac cells and circuit activity in neuronal cells, through G-protein coupled receptor stimulation. Mutations in this gene are associated with Keppen-Lubinsky Syndrome, a rare condition characterized by severe developmental delay, facial dysmorphism, and intellectual disability.
KCNJ8	Potassium channels are present in most mammalian cells, where they participate in a wide range of physiologic responses. The protein encoded by this gene is an integral membrane protein and inward-rectifier type potassium channel. The encoded protein, which has a greater tendency to allow potassium to flow into a cell rather than out of a cell, is controlled by G-proteins. Defects in this gene may be a cause of J-wave syndromes and sudden infant death syndrome (SIDS).
KCNK10	The protein encoded by this gene belongs to the family of potassium channel proteins containing two pore-forming P domains. This channel is an open rectifier which primarily passes outward current under physiological K+ concentrations, and is stimulated strongly by arachidonic acid and to a lesser degree by membrane stretching, intracellular acidification, and general anaesthetics. Several alternatively spliced transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been identified for this gene.
KCNK18	Potassium channels play a role in many cellular processes including maintenance of the action potential, muscle contraction, hormone secretion, osmotic regulation, and ion flow. This gene encodes a member of the superfamily of potassium channel proteins containing two pore-forming P domains and the encoded protein functions as an outward rectifying potassium channel. A mutation in this gene has been found to be associated with migraine with aura.
KCNK2	This gene encodes one of the members of the two-pore-domain background potassium channel protein family. This type of potassium channel is formed by two homodimers that create a channel that leaks potassium out of the cell to control resting membrane potential. The channel can be opened, however, by certain anesthetics, membrane stretching, intracellular acidosis, and heat. Three transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been found for this gene.
KCNK3	This gene encodes a member of the superfamily of potassium channel proteins that contain two pore-forming P domains. The encoded protein is an outwardly rectifying channel that is sensitive to changes in extracellular pH and is inhibited by extracellular acidification. Also referred to as an acid-sensitive potassium channel, it is activated by the anesthetics halothane and isoflurane. Although three transcripts are detected in northern blots, there is currently no sequence available to confirm transcript variants for this gene.
KCNK4	This gene encodes a member of the TWIK-related arachidonic acid-stimulated two pore potassium channel subfamily. The encoded protein homodimerizes and functions as an outwardly rectifying channel. This channel is regulated by polyunsaturated fatty acids, temperature and mechanical deformation of the lipid membrane. This protein is expressed primarily in neural tissues and may be involved in regulating the noxious input threshold in dorsal root ganglia neurons. Alternate splicing results in multiple transcript variants. Naturally occurring read-through transcripts also exist between this gene and the downstream testis expressed 40 (TEX40) gene, as represented in GeneID: 106780802.
KCNK9	This gene encodes a protein that contains multiple transmembrane regions and two pore-forming P domains and functions as a pH-dependent potassium channel. Amplification and overexpression of this gene have been observed in several types of human carcinomas. This gene is imprinted in the brain, with preferential expression from the maternal allele. A mutation in this gene was associated with Birk-Barel dysmorphism syndrome. Alternative splicing results in multiple transcript variants.
KCNMA1	MaxiK channels are large conductance, voltage and calcium-sensitive potassium channels which are fundamental to the control of smooth muscle tone and neuronal excitability. MaxiK channels can be formed by 2 subunits: the pore-forming alpha subunit, which is the product of this gene, and the modulatory beta subunit. Intracellular calcium regulates the physical association between the alpha and beta subunits. Alternatively spliced transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been identified.
KCNN1	Action potentials in vertebrate neurons are followed by an afterhyperpolarization (AHP) that may persist for several seconds and may have profound consequences for the firing pattern of the neuron. Each component of the AHP is kinetically distinct and is mediated by different calcium-activated potassium channels. The protein encoded by this gene is activated before membrane hyperpolarization and is thought to regulate neuronal excitability by contributing to the slow component of synaptic AHP. The encoded protein is an integral membrane protein that forms a voltage-independent calcium-activated channel with three other calmodulin-binding subunits. This gene is a member of the KCNN family of potassium channel genes.
KCNN2	Action potentials in vertebrate neurons are followed by an afterhyperpolarization (AHP) that may persist for several seconds and may have profound consequences for the firing pattern of the neuron. Each component of the AHP is kinetically distinct and is mediated by different calcium-activated potassium channels. The protein encoded by this gene is activated before membrane hyperpolarization and is thought to regulate neuronal excitability by contributing to the slow component of synaptic AHP. This gene is a member of the KCNN family of potassium channel genes. The encoded protein is an integral membrane protein that forms a voltage-independent calcium-activated channel with three other calmodulin-binding subunits. Alternate splicing of this gene results in multiple transcript variants.
KCNN4	The protein encoded by this gene is part of a potentially heterotetrameric voltage-independent potassium channel that is activated by intracellular calcium. Activation is followed by membrane hyperpolarization, which promotes calcium influx. The encoded protein may be part of the predominant calcium-activated potassium channel in T-lymphocytes. This gene is similar to other KCNN family potassium channel genes, but it differs enough to possibly be considered as part of a new subfamily.
KCNQ1	This gene encodes a voltage-gated potassium channel required for repolarization phase of the cardiac action potential. This protein can form heteromultimers with two other potassium channel proteins, KCNE1 and KCNE3. Mutations in this gene are associated with hereditary long QT syndrome 1 (also known as Romano-Ward syndrome), Jervell and Lange-Nielsen syndrome, and familial atrial fibrillation. This gene exhibits tissue-specific imprinting, with preferential expression from the maternal allele in some tissues, and biallelic expression in others. This gene is located in a region of chromosome 11 amongst other imprinted genes that are associated with Beckwith-Wiedemann syndrome (BWS), and itself has been shown to be disrupted by chromosomal rearrangements in patients with BWS. Alternatively spliced transcript variants have been found for this gene.
KCNQ2	The M channel is a slowly activating and deactivating potassium channel that plays a critical role in the regulation of neuronal excitability.  The M channel is formed by the association of the protein encoded by this gene and a related protein encoded by the KCNQ3 gene, both integral membrane proteins. M channel currents are inhibited by M1 muscarinic acetylcholine receptors and activated by retigabine, a novel anti-convulsant drug. Defects in this gene are a cause of benign familial neonatal convulsions type 1 (BFNC), also known as epilepsy, benign neonatal type 1 (EBN1). At least five transcript variants encoding five different isoforms have been found for this gene.
KCNQ3	This gene encodes a protein that functions in the regulation of neuronal excitability. The encoded protein forms an M-channel by associating with the products of the related KCNQ2 or KCNQ5 genes, which both encode integral membrane proteins. M-channel currents are inhibited by M1 muscarinic acetylcholine receptors and are activated by retigabine, a novel anti-convulsant drug. Defects in this gene are a cause of benign familial neonatal convulsions type 2 (BFNC2), also known as epilepsy, benign neonatal type 2 (EBN2). Alternative splicing of this gene results in multiple transcript variants.
KCNQ4	The protein encoded by this gene forms a potassium channel that is thought to play a critical role in the regulation of neuronal excitability, particularly in sensory cells of the cochlea. The current generated by this channel is inhibited by M1 muscarinic acetylcholine receptors and activated by retigabine, a novel anti-convulsant drug. The encoded protein can form a homomultimeric potassium channel or possibly a heteromultimeric channel in association with the protein encoded by the KCNQ3 gene. Defects in this gene are a cause of nonsyndromic sensorineural deafness type 2 (DFNA2), an autosomal dominant form of progressive hearing loss. Two transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been found for this gene.
KCNQ5	This gene is a member of the KCNQ potassium channel gene family that is differentially expressed in subregions of the brain and in skeletal muscle. The protein encoded by this gene yields currents that activate slowly with depolarization and can form heteromeric channels with the protein encoded by the KCNQ3 gene. Currents expressed from this protein have voltage dependences and inhibitor sensitivities in common with M-currents. They are also inhibited by M1 muscarinic receptor activation. Multiple transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been found for this gene.
KDM1A	This gene encodes a nuclear protein containing a SWIRM domain, a FAD-binding motif, and an amine oxidase domain. This protein is a component of several histone deacetylase complexes, though it silences genes by functioning as a histone demethylase. Alternative splicing results in multiple transcript variants.
KDM1B	Flavin-dependent histone demethylases, such as KDM1B, regulate histone lysine methylation, an epigenetic mark that regulates gene expression and chromatin function (Karytinos et al., 2009
KDM2A	This gene encodes a member of the F-box protein family which is characterized by an approximately 40 amino acid motif, the F-box. The F-box proteins constitute one of the four subunits of ubiquitin protein ligase complex called SCFs (SKP1-cullin-F-box), which function in phosphorylation-dependent ubiquitination. The F-box proteins are divided into 3 classes: Fbws containing WD-40 domains, Fbls containing leucine-rich repeats, and Fbxs containing either different protein-protein interaction modules or no recognizable motifs. The protein encoded by this gene belongs to the Fbls class and, in addition to an F-box, contains at least six highly degenerated leucine-rich repeats. This family member plays a role in epigenetic silencing. It nucleates at CpG islands and specifically demethylates both mono- and di-methylated lysine-36 of histone H3. Alternative splicing results in multiple transcript variants.
KDM2B	This gene encodes a member of the F-box protein family which is characterized by an approximately 40 amino acid motif, the F-box. The F-box proteins constitute one of the four subunits of ubiquitin protein ligase complex called SCFs (SKP1-cullin-F-box), which function in phosphorylation-dependent ubiquitination. The F-box proteins are divided into 3 classes: Fbws containing WD-40 domains, Fbls containing leucine-rich repeats, and Fbxs containing either different protein-protein interaction modules or no recognizable motifs. The protein encoded by this gene belongs to the Fbls class. Multiple alternatively spliced transcript variants have been found for this gene, but the full-length nature of some variants has not been determined.
KDM3A	This gene encodes a zinc finger protein that contains a jumonji domain and may play a role in hormone-dependent transcriptional activation. Alternative splicing results in multiple transcript variants.
KDM3B	Histone demethylase that specifically demethylates 'Lys-9' of histone H3, thereby playing a central role in histone code. Demethylation of Lys residue generates formaldehyde and succinate. May have tumor suppressor activity.
KDM4A	This gene is a member of the Jumonji domain 2 (JMJD2) family and encodes a protein containing a JmjN domain, a JmjC domain, a JD2H domain, two TUDOR domains, and two PHD-type zinc fingers. This nuclear protein functions as a trimethylation-specific demethylase, converting specific trimethylated histone residues to the dimethylated form, and as a transcriptional repressor.
KDM4B	Histone demethylase that specifically demethylates 'Lys-9' of histone H3, thereby playing a role in histone code. Does not demethylate histone H3 'Lys-4', H3 'Lys-27', H3 'Lys-36' nor H4 'Lys-20'. Only able to demethylate trimethylated H3 'Lys-9', with a weaker activity than KDM4A, KDM4C and KDM4D. Demethylation of Lys residue generates formaldehyde and succinate.
KDM4C	This gene is a member of the Jumonji domain 2 (JMJD2) family. The encoded protein is a trimethylation-specific demethylase, and converts specific trimethylated histone residues to the dimethylated form. This enzymatic action regulates gene expression and chromosome segregation. Chromosomal aberrations and changes in expression of this gene may be found in tumor cells. Alternative splicing results in multiple transcript variants.
KDM4D	Histone demethylase that specifically demethylates 'Lys-9' of histone H3, thereby playing a central role in histone code. Does not demethylate histone H3 'Lys-4', H3 'Lys-27', H3 'Lys-36' nor H4 'Lys-20'. Demethylates both di- and trimethylated H3 'Lys-9' residue, while it has no activity on monomethylated residues. Demethylation of Lys residue generates formaldehyde and succinate.
KDM4E	The protein encoded by this intronless gene is a member of a large family of histone lysine demethylases, which use oxygen and 2-oxoglutarate to demethylate di- and trimethylated lys9 of histone H3. Derepression of genes by demethylases is sometimes involved in viral infection or carcinogenesis, so inhibitors of these enzymes are desired.
KDM5A	This gene encodes a member of the Jumonji, AT-rich interactive domain 1 (JARID1) histone demethylase protein family. The encoded protein plays a role in gene regulation through the histone code by specifically demethylating lysine 4 of histone H3. The encoded protein interacts with many other proteins, including retinoblastoma protein, and is implicated in the transcriptional regulation of Hox genes and cytokines. This gene may play a role in tumor progression.
KDM5B	This gene encodes a lysine-specific histone demethylase that belongs to the jumonji/ARID domain-containing family of histone demethylases. The encoded protein is capable of demethylating tri-, di- and monomethylated lysine 4 of histone H3. This protein plays a role in the transcriptional repression or certain tumor suppressor genes and is upregulated in certain cancer cells. This protein may also play a role in genome stability and DNA repair. Alternate splicing results in multiple transcript variants.
KDM5C	This gene is a member of the SMCY homolog family and encodes a protein with one ARID domain, one JmjC domain, one JmjN domain and two PHD-type zinc fingers. The DNA-binding motifs suggest this protein is involved in the regulation of transcription and chromatin remodeling. Mutations in this gene have been associated with X-linked cognitive disability. Alternative splicing results in multiple transcript variants.
KDM6A	This gene is located on the X chromosome and is the corresponding locus to a Y-linked gene which encodes a tetratricopeptide repeat (TPR) protein. The encoded protein of this gene contains a JmjC-domain and catalyzes the demethylation of tri/dimethylated histone H3. Multiple alternatively spliced transcript variants have been found for this gene.
KDM6B	The protein encoded by this gene is a lysine-specific demethylase that specifically demethylates di- or tri-methylated lysine 27 of histone H3 (H3K27me2 or H3K27me3). H3K27 trimethylation is a repressive epigenetic mark controlling chromatin organization and gene silencing. This protein can also demethylate non-histone proteins such as retinoblastoma protein. Through its demethylation actvity this gene influences cellular differentiation and development, tumorigenesis, inflammatory diseases, and neurodegenerative diseases. This protein has two classical nuclear localization signals at its N-terminus. Alternative splicing results in multiple transcript variants encoding distinct isoforms.
KDR	Vascular endothelial growth factor (VEGF) is a major growth factor for endothelial cells. This gene encodes one of the two receptors of the VEGF. This receptor, known as kinase insert domain receptor, is a type III receptor tyrosine kinase. It functions as the main mediator of VEGF-induced endothelial proliferation, survival, migration, tubular morphogenesis and sprouting. The signalling and trafficking of this receptor are regulated by multiple factors, including Rab GTPase, P2Y purine nucleotide receptor, integrin alphaVbeta3, T-cell protein tyrosine phosphatase, etc.. Mutations of this gene are implicated in infantile capillary hemangiomas.
KEAP1	This gene encodes a protein containing KELCH-1 like domains, as well as a BTB/POZ domain. Kelch-like ECH-associated protein 1 interacts with NF-E2-related factor 2 in a redox-sensitive manner and the dissociation of the proteins in the cytoplasm is followed by transportation of NF-E2-related factor 2 to the nucleus. This interaction results in the expression of the catalytic subunit of gamma-glutamylcysteine synthetase. Two alternatively spliced transcript variants encoding the same isoform have been found for this gene.
KHK	This gene encodes ketohexokinase that catalyzes conversion of fructose to fructose-1-phosphate. The product of this gene is the first enzyme with a specialized pathway that catabolizes dietary fructose. Alternatively spliced transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been identified.
KHSRP	The KHSRP gene encodes a multifunctional RNA-binding protein implicated in a variety of cellular processes, including transcription, alternative pre-mRNA splicing, and mRNA localization (Min et al., 1997
KIF11	This gene encodes a motor protein that belongs to the kinesin-like protein family. Members of this protein family are known to be involved in various kinds of spindle dynamics. The function of this gene product includes chromosome positioning, centrosome separation and establishing a bipolar spindle during cell mitosis.
KIF14	This gene encodes a member of the kinesin-3 superfamily of microtubule motor proteins. These proteins are involved in numerous processes including vesicle transport, chromosome segregation, mitotic spindle formation, and cytokinesis. In human HeLa-S3 and 293T cells, this protein is localized to the cytoplasm during interphase, to the spindle poles and spindle microtubules during mitosis, and to the midbody during cytokinesis. An internal motor domain displays microtubule-dependent ATPase activity, consistent with its function as a microtubule motor protein. Knockdown of this gene results in failed cytokinesis with endoreplication, which results in multinucleated cells. This gene has been identified as a likely oncogene in breast, lung and ovarian cancers, as well as retinoblastomas and gliomas. Alternative splicing results in multiple transcript variants.
KIF15	Plus-end directed kinesin-like motor enzyme involved in mitotic spindle assembly.
KIF1A	The protein encoded by this gene is a member of the kinesin family and functions as an anterograde motor protein that transports membranous organelles along axonal microtubules. Mutations at this locus have been associated with spastic paraplegia-30 and hereditary sensory neuropathy IIC. Alternatively spliced transcript variants encoding distinct isoforms have been described.
KIF1B	This gene encodes a motor protein that transports mitochondria and synaptic vesicle precursors. Mutations in this gene cause Charcot-Marie-Tooth disease, type 2A1.
KIF20A	Mitotic kinesin required for chromosome passenger complex (CPC)-mediated cytokinesis. Following phosphorylation by PLK1, involved in recruitment of PLK1 to the central spindle. Interacts with guanosine triphosphate (GTP)-bound forms of RAB6A and RAB6B. May act as a motor required for the retrograde RAB6 regulated transport of Golgi membranes and associated vesicles along microtubules. Has a microtubule plus end-directed motility.
KIF20B	Plus-end-directed motor enzyme that is required for completion of cytokinesis .
KIF22	The protein encoded by this gene is a member of the kinesin-like protein family. The family members are microtubule-dependent molecular motors that transport organelles within cells and move chromosomes during cell division. The C-terminal half of this protein has been shown to bind DNA. Studies with the Xenopus homolog suggests its essential role in metaphase chromosome alignment and maintenance. Alternatively spliced transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been found for this gene.
KIF23	The protein encoded by this gene is a member of kinesin-like protein family. This family includes microtubule-dependent molecular motors that transport organelles within cells and move chromosomes during cell division. This protein has been shown to cross-bridge antiparallel microtubules and drive microtubule movement in vitro. Alternate splicing of this gene results in multiple transcript variants.
KIF24	This gene encodes a member of the kinesin superfamily of microtubule-based motor proteins which are involved in the intracellular transport of membranous organelles, protein complexes, and mRNAs. They also play critical roles in mitosis, morphogenesis, and signal transduction. The encoded protein contains an N-terminal sterile alpha motif (SAM) domain and an ATP-binding kinesin motor domain. It binds centriolar coiled coil protein 110 and centrosomal protein 97 and localizes to the mother centriole to regulate ciliogenesis by controlling microtubule polymerization.
KIF27	This gene is a member of the KIF27 (kinesin 4) sub-family of the mammalian kinesin family. The gene is an ortholog of the Drosophila Cos2 gene, which plays an important role in the Hedgehog signaling pathway. The encoded protein contains an N-terminal motor domain which includes nucleotide-binding and microtubule-interacting regions, a stalk domain containing a predicted coiled coil motif and a C-terminal tail domain. Alternatively spliced transcript variants have been observed for this gene. Pseudogenes associated with this gene are located on chromosome 9.
KIF2C	This gene encodes a kinesin-like protein that functions as a microtubule-dependent molecular motor. The encoded protein can depolymerize microtubules at the plus end, thereby promoting mitotic chromosome segregation. Alternative splicing results in multiple transcript variants.
KIF3A	Microtubule-based anterograde translocator for membranous organelles. Plus end-directed microtubule sliding activity in vitro. Plays a role in primary cilia formation. Plays a role in centriole cohesion and subdistal appendage organization and function. Regulates the formation of the subdistal appendage via recruitement of DCTN1 to the centriole. Also required for ciliary basal feet formation and microtubule anchoring to mother centriole.
KIF3B	The protein encoded by this gene acts as a heterodimer with kinesin family member 3A to aid in chromosome movement during mitosis and meiosis. The encoded protein is a plus end-directed microtubule motor and can interact with the SMC3 subunit of the cohesin complex. In addition, the encoded protein may be involved in the intracellular movement of membranous organelles. This protein and kinesin family member 3A form the kinesin II subfamily of the kinesin superfamily.
KIF3C	Microtubule-based anterograde translocator for membranous organelles.
KIF4A	This gene encodes a member of the kinesin 4 subfamily of kinesin related proteins. The encoded protein is an ATP dependent microtubule-based motor protein that is involved in the intracellular transport of membranous organelles. This protein also associates with condensed chromosome arms and may be involved in maintaining chromosome integrity during mitosis. This protein may also be involved in the organization of the central spindle prior to cytokinesis. A pseudogene of this gene is found on chromosome X.
KIF5A	This gene encodes a member of the kinesin family of proteins. Members of this family are part of a multisubunit complex that functions as a microtubule motor in intracellular organelle transport. Mutations in this gene cause autosomal dominant spastic paraplegia 10.
KIF5B	Microtubule-dependent motor required for normal distribution of mitochondria and lysosomes. Can induce formation of neurite-like membrane protrusions in non-neuronal cells in a ZFYVE27-dependent manner (By similarity). Regulates centrosome and nuclear positioning during mitotic entry. During the G2 phase of the cell cycle in a BICD2-dependent manner, antagonizes dynein function and drives the separation of nuclei and centrosomes .
KIF5C	The protein encoded by this gene is a kinesin heavy chain subunit involved in the transport of cargo within the central nervous system. The encoded protein, which acts as a tetramer by associating with another heavy chain and two light chains, interacts with protein kinase CK2. Mutations in this gene have been associated with complex cortical dysplasia with other brain malformations-2. Two transcript variants, one protein-coding and the other non-protein coding, have been found for this gene.
KIF7	This gene encodes a cilia-associated protein belonging to the kinesin family. This protein plays a role in the sonic hedgehog (SHH) signaling pathway through the regulation of GLI transcription factors. It functions as a negative regulator of the SHH pathway by preventing inappropriate activation of GLI2 in the absence of ligand, and as a positive regulator by preventing the processing of GLI3 into its repressor form. Mutations in this gene have been associated with various ciliopathies.
KIF9	This gene is a Protein Coding gene. Among its related pathways are Response to elevated platelet cytosolic Ca2+ and Golgi-to-ER retrograde transport. Enables identical protein binding activity. Involved in extracellular matrix disassembly; organelle disassembly; and regulation of podosome assembly. Located in microtubule; podosome; and vesicle.
KIFC1	Minus end-directed microtubule-dependent motor required for bipolar spindle formation .
KIFC3	This gene encodes a member of the kinesin-14 family of microtubule motors. Members of this family play a role in the formation, maintenance and remodeling of the bipolar mitotic spindle. The protein encoded by this gene has cytoplasmic functions in the interphase cells. It may also be involved in the final stages of cytokinesis. Alternative splicing results in multiple transcript variants encoding different isoforms.
KIR2DL3	Killer cell immunoglobulin-like receptors (KIRs) are transmembrane glycoproteins expressed by natural killer cells and subsets of T cells. The KIR genes are polymorphic and highly homologous and they are found in a cluster on chromosome 19q13.4 within the 1 Mb leukocyte receptor complex (LRC). The gene content of the KIR gene cluster varies among haplotypes, although several "framework" genes are found in all haplotypes (KIR3DL3, KIR3DP1, KIR3DL4, KIR3DL2). The KIR proteins are classified by the number of extracellular immunoglobulin domains (2D or 3D) and by whether they have a long (L) or short (S) cytoplasmic domain. KIR proteins with the long cytoplasmic domain transduce inhibitory signals upon ligand binding via an immune tyrosine-based inhibitory motif (ITIM), while KIR proteins with the short cytoplasmic domain lack the ITIM motif and instead associate with the TYRO protein tyrosine kinase binding protein to transduce activating signals. The ligands for several KIR proteins are subsets of HLA class I molecules; thus, KIR proteins are thought to play an important role in regulation of the immune response.
KISS1R	The protein encoded by this gene is a galanin-like G protein-coupled receptor that binds metastin, a peptide encoded by the metastasis suppressor gene KISS1. The tissue distribution of the expressed gene suggests that it is involved in the regulation of endocrine function, and this is supported by the finding that this gene appears to play a role in the onset of puberty. Mutations in this gene have been associated with hypogonadotropic hypogonadism and central precocious puberty.
KIT	This gene encodes the human homolog of the proto-oncogene c-kit. C-kit was first identified as the cellular homolog of the feline sarcoma viral oncogene v-kit. This protein is a type 3 transmembrane receptor for MGF (mast cell growth factor, also known as stem cell factor). Mutations in this gene are associated with gastrointestinal stromal tumors, mast cell disease, acute myelogenous lukemia, and piebaldism. Multiple transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been found for this gene.
KITLG	This gene encodes the ligand of the tyrosine-kinase receptor encoded by the KIT locus. This ligand is a pleiotropic factor that acts in utero in germ cell and neural cell development, and hematopoiesis, all believed to reflect a role in cell migration. In adults, it functions pleiotropically, while mostly noted for its continued requirement in hematopoiesis. Two transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been found for this gene.
KLF1	This gene encodes a hematopoietic-specific transcription factor that induces high-level expression of adult beta-globin and other erythroid genes. The zinc-finger protein binds to the DNA sequence CCACACCCT found in the beta hemoglobin promoter. Heterozygous loss-of-function mutations in this gene result in the dominant In(Lu) blood phenotype.
KLF10	This gene encodes a member of a family of proteins that feature C2H2-type zinc finger domains. The encoded protein is a transcriptional repressor that acts as an effector of transforming growth factor beta signaling. Activity of this protein may inhibit the growth of cancers, particularly pancreatic cancer. Alternative splicing results in multiple transcript variants.
KLF5	This gene encodes a member of the Kruppel-like factor subfamily of zinc finger proteins. The encoded protein is a transcriptional activator that binds directly to a specific recognition motif in the promoters of target genes. This protein acts downstream of multiple different signaling pathways and is regulated by post-translational modification. It may participate in both promoting and suppressing cell proliferation. Expression of this gene may be changed in a variety of different cancers and in cardiovascular disease. Alternative splicing results in multiple transcript variants.
KLK12	Kallikreins are a subgroup of serine proteases having diverse physiological functions. Growing evidence suggests that many kallikreins are implicated in carcinogenesis and some have potential as novel cancer and other disease biomarkers. This gene is one of the fifteen kallikrein subfamily members located in a cluster on chromosome 19. Alternate splicing of this gene results in three transcript variants encoding different isoforms.
KLK13	Kallikreins are a subgroup of serine proteases having diverse physiological functions. Growing evidence suggests that many kallikreins are implicated in carcinogenesis and some have potential as novel cancer and other disease biomarkers. This gene is one of the fifteen kallikrein subfamily members located in a cluster on chromosome 19. Expression of this gene is regulated by steroid hormones and may be useful as a marker for breast cancer.
KLK14	This gene encodes a member of the kallikrein subfamily of serine proteases that have diverse physiological functions such as regulation of blood pressure and desquamation. The altered expression of this gene is implicated in the progression of different cancers including breast and prostate tumors. The encoded protein is a precursor that is proteolytically processed to generate the functional enzyme. This gene is one of the fifteen kallikrein subfamily members located in a cluster on chromosome 19. Alternative splicing results in multiple transcript variants.
KLK2	This gene encodes a member of the grandular kallikrein protein family. Kallikreins are a subgroup of serine proteases that are clustered on chromosome 19. Members of this family are involved in a diverse array of biological functions. The protein encoded by this gene is a highly active trypsin-like serine protease that selectively cleaves at arginine residues. This protein is primarily expressed in prostatic tissue and is responsible for cleaving pro-prostate-specific antigen into its enzymatically active form. This gene is highly expressed in prostate tumor cells and may be a prognostic maker for prostate cancer risk. Alternate splicing results in both coding and non-coding transcript variants.
KLK3	Kallikreins are a subgroup of serine proteases having diverse physiological functions. Growing evidence suggests that many kallikreins are implicated in carcinogenesis and some have potential as novel cancer and other disease biomarkers. This gene is one of the fifteen kallikrein subfamily members located in a cluster on chromosome 19. Its protein product is a protease present in seminal plasma. It is thought to function normally in the liquefaction of seminal coagulum, presumably by hydrolysis of the high molecular mass seminal vesicle protein. Serum level of this protein, called PSA in the clinical setting, is useful in the diagnosis and monitoring of prostatic carcinoma. Alternate splicing of this gene generates several transcript variants encoding different isoforms.
KLK4	Kallikreins are a subgroup of serine proteases having diverse physiological functions. Growing evidence suggests that many kallikreins are implicated in carcinogenesis and some have potential as novel cancer and other disease biomarkers. This gene is one of the fifteen kallikrein subfamily members located in a cluster on chromosome 19. In some tissues its expression is hormonally regulated. The expression pattern of a similar mouse protein in murine developing teeth supports a role for the protein in the degradation of enamel proteins. Several transcript variants encoding different proteins have been found for this gene.
KLK5	Kallikreins are a subgroup of serine proteases having diverse physiological functions. Growing evidence suggests that many kallikreins are implicated in carcinogenesis and some have potential as novel cancer and other disease biomarkers. This gene is one of the fifteen kallikrein subfamily members located in a cluster on chromosome 19. Its expression is up-regulated by estrogens and progestins. The encoded protein is secreted and may be involved in desquamation in the epidermis. Alternative splicing results in multiple transcript variants encoding the same protein.
KLK6	This gene encodes a member of the kallikrein subfamily of the peptidase S1 family of serine proteases. Growing evidence suggests that many kallikreins are implicated in carcinogenesis and some have potential as novel cancer and other disease biomarkers. The encoded preproprotein is proteolytically processed to generate the mature protease. Expression of this protease is regulated by steroid hormones and may be elevated in multiple human cancers and in serum from psoriasis patients. The encoded protease may participate in the cleavage of amyloid precursor protein and alpha-synuclein, thus implicating this protease in Alzheimer's and Parkinson's disease, respectively. This gene is located in a gene cluster on chromosome 19. Alternative splicing results in multiple transcript variants, at least one of which encodes an isoform that is proteolytically processed.
KLK7	This gene encodes a member of the kallikrein subfamily of serine proteases. These enzymes have diverse physiological functions and many kallikrein genes are biomarkers for cancer. The encoded protein has chymotrypsin-like activity and plays a role in the proteolysis of intercellular cohesive structures that precedes desquamation, the shedding of the outermost layer of the epidermis. The encoded protein may play a role in cancer invasion and metastasis, and increased expression of this gene is associated with unfavorable prognosis and progression of several types of cancer. Polymorphisms in this gene may play a role in the development of atopic dermatitis. Alternatively spliced transcript variants encoding multiple isoforms have been observed for this gene, which is one of fifteen kallikrein subfamily members located in a gene cluster on chromosome 19.
KLK8	Kallikreins are a subgroup of serine proteases having diverse physiological functions. Growing evidence suggests that many kallikreins are implicated in carcinogenesis and some have potential as novel cancer and other disease biomarkers. This gene is one of the fifteen kallikrein subfamily members located in tandem in a gene cluster on chromosome 19. The encoded protein may be involved in proteolytic cascade in the skin and may serve as a biomarker for ovarian cancer. Alternate splicing of this gene results in multiple transcript variants encoding different isoforms.
KLKB1	This gene encodes a glycoprotein that participates in the surface-dependent activation of blood coagulation, fibrinolysis, kinin generation and inflammation. The encoded preproprotein present in plasma as a non-covalent complex with high molecular weight kininogen undergoes proteolytic processing mediated by activated coagulation factor XII to generate a disulfide-linked, heterodimeric serine protease comprised of heavy and light chains. Certain mutations in this gene cause prekallikrein deficiency. Alternative splicing results in multiple transcript variants encoding different isoforms.
KMO	This gene encodes a mitochondrion outer membrane protein that catalyzes the hydroxylation of L-tryptophan metabolite, L-kynurenine, to form L-3-hydroxykynurenine. Studies in yeast identified this gene as a therapeutic target for Huntington disease.
KMT2A	This gene encodes a transcriptional coactivator that plays an essential role in regulating gene expression during early development and hematopoiesis. The encoded protein contains multiple conserved functional domains. One of these domains, the SET domain, is responsible for its histone H3 lysine 4 (H3K4) methyltransferase activity which mediates chromatin modifications associated with epigenetic transcriptional activation. This protein is processed by the enzyme Taspase 1 into two fragments, MLL-C and MLL-N. These fragments reassociate and further assemble into different multiprotein complexes that regulate the transcription of specific target genes, including many of the HOX genes. Multiple chromosomal translocations involving this gene are the cause of certain acute lymphoid leukemias and acute myeloid leukemias. Alternate splicing results in multiple transcript variants.
KMT2B	This gene encodes a protein which contains multiple domains including a CXXC zinc finger, three PHD zinc fingers, two FY-rich domains, and a SET (suppressor of variegation, enhancer of zeste, and trithorax) domain. The SET domain is a conserved C-terminal domain that characterizes proteins of the MLL (mixed-lineage leukemia) family. This gene is ubiquitously expressed in adult tissues. It is also amplified in solid tumor cell lines, and may be involved in human cancer. Two alternatively spliced transcript variants encoding distinct isoforms have been reported for this gene, however, the full length nature of the shorter transcript is not known.
KMT2C	This gene is a member of the myeloid/lymphoid or mixed-lineage leukemia (MLL) family and encodes a nuclear protein with an AT hook DNA-binding domain, a DHHC-type zinc finger, six PHD-type zinc fingers, a SET domain, a post-SET domain and a RING-type zinc finger. This protein is a member of the ASC-2/NCOA6 complex (ASCOM), which possesses histone methylation activity and is involved in transcriptional coactivation.
KMT2D	The protein encoded by this gene is a histone methyltransferase that methylates the Lys-4 position of histone H3. The encoded protein is part of a large protein complex called ASCOM, which has been shown to be a transcriptional regulator of the beta-globin and estrogen receptor genes. Mutations in this gene have been shown to be a cause of Kabuki syndrome.
KNG1	This gene uses alternative splicing to generate two different proteins- high molecular weight kininogen (HMWK) and low molecular weight kininogen (LMWK). HMWK is essential for blood coagulation and assembly of the kallikrein-kinin system. Also, bradykinin, a peptide causing numerous physiological effects, is released from HMWK. Bradykinin also functions as an antimicrobial peptide with antibacterial and antifungal activity. In contrast to HMWK, LMWK is not involved in blood coagulation. Three transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been found for this gene.
KPNA2	The import of proteins into the nucleus is a process that involves at least 2 steps. The first is an energy-independent docking of the protein to the nuclear envelope and the second is an energy-dependent translocation through the nuclear pore complex. Imported proteins require a nuclear localization sequence (NLS) which generally consists of a short region of basic amino acids or 2 such regions spaced about 10 amino acids apart. Proteins involved in the first step of nuclear import have been identified in different systems. These include the Xenopus protein importin and its yeast homolog, SRP1 (a suppressor of certain temperature-sensitive mutations of RNA polymerase I in Saccharomyces cerevisiae), which bind to the NLS. KPNA2 protein interacts with the NLSs of DNA helicase Q1 and SV40 T antigen and may be involved in the nuclear transport of proteins. KPNA2 also may play a role in V(D)J recombination. Alternative splicing results in multiple transcript variants.
KRAS	This gene, a Kirsten ras oncogene homolog from the mammalian ras gene family, encodes a protein that is a member of the small GTPase superfamily. A single amino acid substitution is responsible for an activating mutation. The transforming protein that results is implicated in various malignancies, including lung adenocarcinoma, mucinous adenoma, ductal carcinoma of the pancreas and colorectal carcinoma. Alternative splicing leads to variants encoding two isoforms that differ in the C-terminal region.
KSR2	Location-regulated scaffold connecting MEK to RAF. Has very low protein kinase activity and can phosphorylate MAP2K1 at several Ser and Thr residues with very low efficiency (in vitro). Interaction with BRAF enhances KSR2-mediated phosphorylation of MAP2K1 (in vitro). Blocks MAP3K8 kinase activity and MAP3K8-mediated signaling. Acts as a negative regulator of MAP3K3-mediated activation of ERK, JNK and NF-kappa-B pathways, inhibiting MAP3K3-mediated interleukin-8 production.
KYNU	Kynureninase is a pyridoxal-5'-phosphate (pyridoxal-P) dependent enzyme that catalyzes the cleavage of L-kynurenine and L-3-hydroxykynurenine into anthranilic and 3-hydroxyanthranilic acids, respectively. Kynureninase is involved in the biosynthesis of NAD cofactors from tryptophan through the kynurenine pathway. Alternative splicing results in multiple transcript variants.
L3MBTL1	This gene represents a polycomb group gene. The encoded protein functions to regulate gene activity, likely via chromatin modification. The encoded protein may also be necessary for mitosis. Alternatively spliced transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been identified.
L3MBTL3	This gene encodes a member of the malignant brain tumor (MBT) family of chromatin interacting transcriptional repressors. Members of this family function as methyl-lysine readers, which recognize methylated lysine residues on histone protein tails, and are associated with the repression of gene expression. The encoded protein may regulate hematopoiesis. Homozygous deletion of this gene has been observed in human patients with medulloblastoma.
L3MBTL4	Putative Polycomb group (PcG) protein. PcG proteins maintain the transcriptionally repressive state of genes, probably via a modification of chromatin, rendering it heritably changed in its expressibility (By similarity).
LAMB4	This gene is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with LAMB4 include Diverticulitis and Diverticulitis Of Colon. Among its related pathways are ERK Signaling and Integrin Pathway. Predicted to be an extracellular matrix structural constituent. Predicted to be involved in several processes, including basement membrane assembly; cell migration; and substrate adhesion-dependent cell spreading. Predicted to be located in basement membrane; extracellular region; and membrane. Predicted to be part of laminin complex.
LANCL2	Necessary for abscisic acid (ABA) binding on the cell membrane and activation of the ABA signaling pathway in granulocytes.
LAP3	Presumably involved in the processing and regular turnover of intracellular proteins. Catalyzes the removal of unsubstituted N-terminal amino acids from various peptides.
LARS	This gene encodes a cytosolic leucine-tRNA synthetase, a member of the class I aminoacyl-tRNA synthetase family. The encoded enzyme catalyzes the ATP-dependent ligation of L-leucine to tRNA(Leu). It is found in the cytoplasm as part of a multisynthetase complex and interacts with the arginine tRNA synthetase through its C-terminal domain. A mutation in this gene was found in affected individuals with infantile liver failure syndrome 1. Alternatively spliced transcript variants of this gene have been observed.
LAT	The protein encoded by this gene is phosphorylated by ZAP-70/Syk protein tyrosine kinases following activation of the T-cell antigen receptor (TCR) signal transduction pathway. This transmembrane protein localizes to lipid rafts and acts as a docking site for SH2 domain-containing proteins. Upon phosphorylation, this protein recruits multiple adaptor proteins and downstream signaling molecules into multimolecular signaling complexes located near the site of TCR engagement. Alternative splicing results in multiple transcript variants encoding different isoforms.
LATS1	The protein encoded by this gene is a putative serine/threonine kinase that localizes to the mitotic apparatus and complexes with cell cycle controller CDC2 kinase in early mitosis. The protein is phosphorylated in a cell-cycle dependent manner, with late prophase phosphorylation remaining through metaphase. The N-terminal region of the protein binds CDC2 to form a complex showing reduced H1 histone kinase activity, indicating a role as a negative regulator of CDC2/cyclin A. In addition, the C-terminal kinase domain binds to its own N-terminal region, suggesting potential negative regulation through interference with complex formation via intramolecular binding. Biochemical and genetic data suggest a role as a tumor suppressor. This is supported by studies in knockout mice showing development of soft-tissue sarcomas, ovarian stromal cell tumors and a high sensitivity to carcinogenic treatments.
LATS2	This gene encodes a serine/threonine protein kinase belonging to the LATS tumor suppressor family. The protein localizes to centrosomes during interphase, and early and late metaphase. It interacts with the centrosomal proteins aurora-A and ajuba and is required for accumulation of gamma-tubulin and spindle formation at the onset of mitosis. It also interacts with a negative regulator of p53 and may function in a positive feedback loop with p53 that responds to cytoskeleton damage. Additionally, it can function as a co-repressor of androgen-responsive gene expression.
LCAT	This gene encodes the extracellular cholesterol esterifying enzyme, lecithin-cholesterol acyltransferase. The esterification of cholesterol is required for cholesterol transport. Mutations in this gene have been found to cause fish-eye disease as well as LCAT deficiency.
LCK	This gene is a member of the Src family of protein tyrosine kinases (PTKs). The encoded protein is a key signaling molecule in the selection and maturation of developing T-cells. It contains N-terminal sites for myristylation and palmitylation, a PTK domain, and SH2 and SH3 domains which are involved in mediating protein-protein interactions with phosphotyrosine-containing and proline-rich motifs, respectively. The protein localizes to the plasma membrane and pericentrosomal vesicles, and binds to cell surface receptors, including CD4 and CD8, and other signaling molecules. Multiple alternatively spliced variants encoding different isoforms have been described.
LCT	The protein encoded by this gene belongs to the glycosyl hydrolase 1 family of proteins. The encoded preproprotein is proteolytically processed to generate the mature enzyme. This enzyme is integral to the plasma membrane and has both phlorizin hydrolase activity and lactase activity. Mutations in this gene are associated with congenital lactase deficiency. Polymorphisms in this gene are associated with lactase persistence, in which intestinal lactase activity persists at childhood levels into adulthood.
LDHA	The protein encoded by this gene catalyzes the conversion of L-lactate and NAD to pyruvate and NADH in the final step of anaerobic glycolysis. The protein is found predominantly in muscle tissue and belongs to the lactate dehydrogenase family. Mutations in this gene have been linked to exertional myoglobinuria. Multiple transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been found for this gene. The human genome contains several non-transcribed pseudogenes of this gene.
LDHB	This gene encodes the B subunit of lactate dehydrogenase enzyme, which catalyzes the interconversion of pyruvate and lactate with concomitant interconversion of NADH and NAD+ in a post-glycolysis process. Alternatively spliced transcript variants have been found for this gene. Recent studies have shown that a C-terminally extended isoform is produced by use of an alternative in-frame translation termination codon via a stop codon readthrough mechanism, and that this isoform is localized in the peroxisomes. Mutations in this gene are associated with lactate dehydrogenase B deficiency. Pseudogenes have been identified on chromosomes X, 5 and 13.
LDLR	The low density lipoprotein receptor (LDLR) gene family consists of cell surface proteins involved in receptor-mediated endocytosis of specific ligands. Low density lipoprotein (LDL) is normally bound at the cell membrane and taken into the cell ending up in lysosomes where the protein is degraded and the cholesterol is made available for repression of microsomal enzyme 3-hydroxy-3-methylglutaryl coenzyme A (HMG CoA) reductase, the rate-limiting step in cholesterol synthesis. At the same time, a reciprocal stimulation of cholesterol ester synthesis takes place. Mutations in this gene cause the autosomal dominant disorder, familial hypercholesterolemia. Alternate splicing results in multiple transcript variants.
LEF1	This gene encodes a transcription factor belonging to a family of proteins that share homology with the high mobility group protein-1. The protein encoded by this gene can bind to a functionally important site in the T-cell receptor-alpha enhancer, thereby conferring maximal enhancer activity. This transcription factor is involved in the Wnt signaling pathway, and it may function in hair cell differentiation and follicle morphogenesis. Mutations in this gene have been found in somatic sebaceous tumors. This gene has also been linked to other cancers, including androgen-independent prostate cancer. Alternative splicing results in multiple transcript variants.
LEPR	The protein encoded by this gene belongs to the gp130 family of cytokine receptors that are known to stimulate gene transcription via activation of cytosolic STAT proteins. This protein is a receptor for leptin (an adipocyte-specific hormone that regulates body weight), and is involved in the regulation of fat metabolism, as well as in a novel hematopoietic pathway that is required for normal lymphopoiesis. Mutations in this gene have been associated with obesity and pituitary dysfunction. Alternatively spliced transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been described for this gene. It is noteworthy that this gene and LEPROT gene (GeneID:54741) share the same promoter and the first 2 exons, however, encode distinct proteins (PMID:9207021).
LGALS1	The galectins are a family of beta-galactoside-binding proteins implicated in modulating cell-cell and cell-matrix interactions. This gene product may act as an autocrine negative growth factor that regulates cell proliferation.
LGALS3	This gene encodes a member of the galectin family of carbohydrate binding proteins. Members of this protein family have an affinity for beta-galactosides. The encoded protein is characterized by an N-terminal proline-rich tandem repeat domain and a single C-terminal carbohydrate recognition domain. This protein can self-associate through the N-terminal domain allowing it to bind to multivalent saccharide ligands. This protein localizes to the extracellular matrix, the cytoplasm and the nucleus. This protein plays a role in numerous cellular functions including apoptosis, innate immunity, cell adhesion and T-cell regulation. The protein exhibits antimicrobial activity against bacteria and fungi. Alternate splicing results in multiple transcript variants.
LGALS4	The galectins are a family of beta-galactoside-binding proteins implicated in modulating cell-cell and cell-matrix interactions. The expression of this gene is restricted to small intestine, colon, and rectum, and it is underexpressed in colorectal cancer.
LGALS7	The galectins are a family of beta-galactoside-binding proteins implicated in modulating cell-cell and cell-matrix interactions. Differential and in situ hybridization studies indicate that this lectin is specifically expressed in keratinocytes and found mainly in stratified squamous epithelium. A duplicate copy of this gene (GeneID:653499) is found adjacent to, but on the opposite strand on chromosome 19.
LGALS8	This gene encodes a member of the galectin family. Galectins are beta-galactoside-binding animal lectins with conserved carbohydrate recognition domains. The galectins have been implicated in many essential functions including development, differentiation, cell-cell adhesion, cell-matrix interaction, growth regulation, apoptosis, and RNA splicing. This gene is widely expressed in tumoral tissues and seems to be involved in integrin-like cell interactions. Alternatively spliced transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been identified.
LGALS9	The galectins are a family of beta-galactoside-binding proteins implicated in modulating cell-cell and cell-matrix interactions. The protein encoded by this gene is an S-type lectin. It is overexpressed in Hodgkin's disease tissue and might participate in the interaction between the H&RS cells with their surrounding cells and might thus play a role in the pathogenesis of this disease and/or its associated immunodeficiency. Multiple alternatively spliced transcript variants have been found for this gene.
LGMN	This gene encodes a cysteine protease that has a strict specificity for hydrolysis of asparaginyl bonds. This enzyme may be involved in the processing of bacterial peptides and endogenous proteins for MHC class II presentation in the lysosomal/endosomal systems. Enzyme activation is triggered by acidic pH and appears to be autocatalytic. Protein expression occurs after monocytes differentiate into dendritic cells. A fully mature, active enzyme is produced following lipopolysaccharide expression in mature dendritic cells. Overexpression of this gene may be associated with the majority of solid tumor types. This gene has a pseudogene on chromosome 13. Several alternatively spliced transcript variants have been described, but the biological validity of only two has been determined. These two variants encode the same isoform.
LHCGR	This gene encodes the receptor for both luteinizing hormone and choriogonadotropin. This receptor belongs to the G-protein coupled receptor 1 family, and its activity is mediated by G proteins which activate adenylate cyclase. Mutations in this gene result in disorders of male secondary sexual character development, including familial male precocious puberty, also known as testotoxicosis, hypogonadotropic hypogonadism, Leydig cell adenoma with precocious puberty, and male pseudohermaphtoditism with Leydig cell hypoplasia.
LIG1	This gene encodes a member of the ATP-dependent DNA ligase protein family. The encoded protein functions in DNA replication, recombination, and the base excision repair process. Mutations in this gene that lead to DNA ligase I deficiency result in immunodeficiency and increased sensitivity to DNA-damaging agents. Disruption of this gene may also be associated with a variety of cancers. Alternative splicing results in multiple transcript variants.
LIMK1	There are approximately 40 known eukaryotic LIM proteins, so named for the LIM domains they contain. LIM domains are highly conserved cysteine-rich structures containing 2 zinc fingers. Although zinc fingers usually function by binding to DNA or RNA, the LIM motif probably mediates protein-protein interactions. LIM kinase-1 and LIM kinase-2 belong to a small subfamily with a unique combination of 2 N-terminal LIM motifs and a C-terminal protein kinase domain. LIMK1 is a serine/threonine kinase that regulates actin polymerization via phosphorylation and inactivation of the actin binding factor cofilin. This protein is ubiquitously expressed during development and plays a role in many cellular processes associated with cytoskeletal structure. This protein also stimulates axon growth and may play a role in brain development. LIMK1 hemizygosity is implicated in the impaired visuospatial constructive cognition of Williams syndrome. Alternative splicing results in multiple transcript variants encoding distinct isoforms.
LIMK2	There are approximately 40 known eukaryotic LIM proteins, so named for the LIM domains they contain. LIM domains are highly conserved cysteine-rich structures containing 2 zinc fingers. Although zinc fingers usually function by binding to DNA or RNA, the LIM motif probably mediates protein-protein interactions. LIM kinase-1 and LIM kinase-2 belong to a small subfamily with a unique combination of 2 N-terminal LIM motifs and a C-terminal protein kinase domain. The protein encoded by this gene is phosphorylated and activated by ROCK, a downstream effector of Rho, and the encoded protein, in turn, phosphorylates cofilin, inhibiting its actin-depolymerizing activity. It is thought that this pathway contributes to Rho-induced reorganization of the actin cytoskeleton. At least three transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been found for this gene.
LINGO1	Functional component of the Nogo receptor signaling complex (RTN4R/NGFR) in RhoA activation responsible for some inhibition of axonal regeneration by myelin-associated factors .
LIPA	This gene encodes lipase A, the lysosomal acid lipase (also known as cholesterol ester hydrolase). This enzyme functions in the lysosome to catalyze the hydrolysis of cholesteryl esters and triglycerides. Mutations in this gene can result in Wolman disease and cholesteryl ester storage disease. Alternatively spliced transcript variants have been found for this gene.
LIPC	LIPC encodes hepatic triglyceride lipase, which is expressed in liver. LIPC has the dual functions of triglyceride hydrolase and ligand/bridging factor for receptor-mediated lipoprotein uptake.
LIPE	The protein encoded by this gene has a long and a short form, generated by use of alternative translational start codons. The long form is expressed in steroidogenic tissues such as testis, where it converts cholesteryl esters to free cholesterol for steroid hormone production. The short form is expressed in adipose tissue, among others, where it hydrolyzes stored triglycerides to free fatty acids.
LIPF	This gene encodes gastric lipase, an enzyme involved in the digestion of dietary triglycerides in the gastrointestinal tract, and responsible for 30% of fat digestion processes occurring in human. It is secreted by gastric chief cells in the fundic mucosa of the stomach, and it hydrolyzes the ester bonds of triglycerides under acidic pH conditions. The gene is a member of a conserved gene family of lipases that play distinct roles in neutral lipid metabolism. Several transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been found for this gene.
LIPG	The protein encoded by this gene has substantial phospholipase activity and may be involved in lipoprotein metabolism and vascular biology. This protein is designated a member of the TG lipase family by its sequence and characteristic lid region which provides substrate specificity for enzymes of the TG lipase family.
LMNA	The nuclear lamina consists of a two-dimensional matrix of proteins located next to the inner nuclear membrane. The lamin family of proteins make up the matrix and are highly conserved in evolution. During mitosis, the lamina matrix is reversibly disassembled as the lamin proteins are phosphorylated. Lamin proteins are thought to be involved in nuclear stability, chromatin structure and gene expression. Vertebrate lamins consist of two types, A and B. Alternative splicing results in multiple transcript variants. Mutations in this gene lead to several diseases: Emery-Dreifuss muscular dystrophy, familial partial lipodystrophy, limb girdle muscular dystrophy, dilated cardiomyopathy, Charcot-Marie-Tooth disease, and Hutchinson-Gilford progeria syndrome.
LMO2	LMO2 encodes a cysteine-rich, two LIM-domain protein that is required for yolk sac erythropoiesis. The LMO2 protein has a central and crucial role in hematopoietic development and is highly conserved. The LMO2 transcription start site is located approximately 25 kb downstream from the 11p13 T-cell translocation cluster (11p13 ttc), where a number T-cell acute lymphoblastic leukemia-specific translocations occur. Alternative splicing results in multiple transcript variants encoding different isoforms.
LNPEP	This gene encodes a zinc-dependent aminopeptidase that cleaves vasopressin, oxytocin, lys-bradykinin, met-enkephalin, dynorphin A and other peptide hormones. The protein can be secreted in maternal serum, reside in intracellular vesicles with the insulin-responsive glucose transporter GLUT4, or form a type II integral membrane glycoprotein. The protein catalyzes the final step in the conversion of angiotensinogen to angiotensin IV (AT4) and is also a receptor for AT4. Alternative splicing results in multiple transcript variants encoding different isoforms.
LOX	This gene encodes a member of the lysyl oxidase family of proteins. Alternative splicing results in multiple transcript variants, at least one of which encodes a preproprotein that is proteolytically processed to generate a regulatory propeptide and the mature enzyme. The copper-dependent amine oxidase activity of this enzyme functions in the crosslinking of collagens and elastin, while the propeptide may play a role in tumor suppression. In addition, defects in this gene have been linked with predisposition to thoracic aortic aneurysms and dissections.
LOXL2	This gene encodes a member of the lysyl oxidase gene family. The prototypic member of the family is essential to the biogenesis of connective tissue, encoding an extracellular copper-dependent amine oxidase that catalyses the first step in the formation of crosslinks in collagens and elastin. A highly conserved amino acid sequence at the C-terminus end appears to be sufficient for amine oxidase activity, suggesting that each family member may retain this function. The N-terminus is poorly conserved and may impart additional roles in developmental regulation, senescence, tumor suppression, cell growth control, and chemotaxis to each member of the family.
LPAR1	The integral membrane protein encoded by this gene is a lysophosphatidic acid (LPA) receptor from a group known as EDG receptors. These receptors are members of the G protein-coupled receptor superfamily. Utilized by LPA for cell signaling, EDG receptors mediate diverse biologic functions, including proliferation, platelet aggregation, smooth muscle contraction, inhibition of neuroblastoma cell differentiation, chemotaxis, and tumor cell invasion. Two transcript variants encoding the same protein have been identified for this gene
LPAR2	This gene encodes a member of family I of the G protein-coupled receptors, as well as the EDG family of proteins. This protein functions as a lysophosphatidic acid (LPA) receptor and contributes to Ca2+ mobilization, a critical cellular response to LPA in cells, through association with Gi and Gq proteins. An alternative splice variant has been described but its full length sequence has not been determined.
LPAR3	This gene encodes a member of the G protein-coupled receptor family, as well as the EDG family of proteins. This protein functions as a cellular receptor for lysophosphatidic acid and mediates lysophosphatidic acid-evoked calcium mobilization. This receptor couples predominantly to G(q/11) alpha proteins.
LPAR4	This gene encodes a member of the lysophosphatidic acid receptor family. It may also be related to the P2Y receptors, a family of receptors that bind purine and pyrimidine nucleotides and are coupled to G proteins. The encoded protein may play a role in monocytic differentiation.
LPAR5	This gene encodes a member of the rhodopsin class of G protein-coupled transmembrane receptors. This protein transmits extracellular signals from lysophosphatidic acid to cells through heterotrimeric G proteins and mediates numerous cellular processes. Many G protein receptors serve as targets for pharmaceutical drugs. Transcript variants of this gene have been described.
LPAR6	The protein encoded by this gene belongs to the family of G-protein coupled receptors, that are preferentially activated by adenosine and uridine nucleotides. This gene aligns with an internal intron of the retinoblastoma susceptibility gene in the reverse orientation. Alternative splicing results in multiple transcript variants.
LPL	LPL encodes lipoprotein lipase, which is expressed in heart, muscle, and adipose tissue. LPL functions as a homodimer, and has the dual functions of triglyceride hydrolase and ligand/bridging factor for receptor-mediated lipoprotein uptake. Severe mutations that cause LPL deficiency result in type I hyperlipoproteinemia, while less extreme mutations in LPL are linked to many disorders of lipoprotein metabolism.
LPO	This gene encodes a member of the peroxidase family of proteins. The encoded preproprotein is proteolytically processed to generate the mature enzyme. Following its secretion from salivary, mammary, and other mucosal glands, this enzyme catalyzes the generation of the antimicrobial substance hypothiocyanous acid. This gene is present in a gene cluster on chromosome 17. Alternative splicing results in multiple transcript variants, at least one of which encodes a preproprotein that is proteolytically processed.
LRAT	The protein encoded by this gene localizes to the endoplasmic reticulum, where it catalyzes the esterification of all-trans-retinol into all-trans-retinyl ester. This reaction is an important step in vitamin A metabolism in the visual system. Mutations in this gene have been associated with early-onset severe retinal dystrophy and Leber congenital amaurosis 14. Alternative splicing results in multiple transcript variants.
LRP6	This gene encodes a member of the low density lipoprotein (LDL) receptor gene family. LDL receptors are transmembrane cell surface proteins involved in receptor-mediated endocytosis of lipoprotein and protein ligands. The protein encoded by this gene functions as a receptor or, with Frizzled, a co-receptor for Wnt and thereby transmits the canonical Wnt/beta-catenin signaling cascade. Through its interaction with the Wnt/beta-catenin signaling cascade this gene plays a role in the regulation of cell differentiation, proliferation, and migration and the development of many cancer types. This protein undergoes gamma-secretase dependent RIP- (regulated intramembrane proteolysis) processing but the precise locations of the cleavage sites have not been determined.
LRRK2	This gene is a member of the leucine-rich repeat kinase family and encodes a protein with an ankryin repeat region, a leucine-rich repeat (LRR) domain, a kinase domain, a DFG-like motif, a RAS domain, a GTPase domain, a MLK-like domain, and a WD40 domain. The protein is present largely in the cytoplasm but also associates with the mitochondrial outer membrane. Mutations in this gene have been associated with Parkinson disease-8.
LSS	The protein encoded by this gene catalyzes the conversion of (S)-2,3 oxidosqualene to lanosterol. The encoded protein is a member of the terpene cyclase/mutase family and catalyzes the first step in the biosynthesis of cholesterol, steroid hormones, and vitamin D. Alternative splicing results in multiple transcript variants encoding different isoforms.
LTA	The encoded protein, a member of the tumor necrosis factor family, is a cytokine produced by lymphocytes. The protein is highly inducible, secreted, and forms heterotrimers with lymphotoxin-beta which anchor lymphotoxin-alpha to the cell surface. This protein also mediates a large variety of inflammatory, immunostimulatory, and antiviral responses, is involved in the formation of secondary lymphoid organs during development and plays a role in apoptosis. Genetic variations in this gene are associated with susceptibility to leprosy type 4, myocardial infarction, non-Hodgkin's lymphoma, and psoriatic arthritis. Alternatively spliced transcript variants have been observed for this gene.
LTA4H	The protein encoded by this gene is an enzyme that contains both hydrolase and aminopeptidase activities. The hydrolase activity is used in the final step of the biosynthesis of leukotriene B4, a proinflammatory mediator. The aminopeptidase activity has been shown to degrade proline-glycine-proline (PGP), a neutrophil chemoattractant and biomarker for chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD). Several transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been found for this gene.
LTB4R	Receptor for extracellular ATP > UTP and ADP. The activity of this receptor is mediated by G proteins which activate a phosphatidylinositol-calcium second messenger system. May be the cardiac P2Y receptor involved in the regulation of cardiac muscle contraction through modulation of L-type calcium currents. Is a receptor for leukotriene B4, a potent chemoattractant involved in inflammation and immune response.
LTB4R2	Low-affinity receptor for leukotrienes including leukotriene B4. Mediates chemotaxis of granulocytes and macrophages. The response is mediated via G-proteins that activate a phosphatidylinositol-calcium second messenger system. The rank order of affinities for the leukotrienes is LTB4 > 12-epi-LTB4 > LTB5 > LTB3.
LTBR	This gene encodes a member of the tumor necrosis factor receptor superfamily. The major ligands of this receptor include lymphotoxin alpha/beta and tumor necrosis factor ligand superfamily member 14. The encoded protein plays a role in signalling during the development of lymphoid and other organs, lipid metabolism, immune response, and programmed cell death. Activity of this receptor has also been linked to carcinogenesis. Alternatively spliced transcript variants encoding multiple isoforms have been observed.
LTC4S	The MAPEG (Membrane Associated Proteins in Eicosanoid and Glutathione metabolism) family includes a number of human proteins, several of which are involved the production of leukotrienes. This gene encodes an enzyme that catalyzes the first step in the biosynthesis of cysteinyl leukotrienes, potent biological compounds derived from arachidonic acid. Leukotrienes have been implicated as mediators of anaphylaxis and inflammatory conditions such as human bronchial asthma. This protein localizes to the nuclear envelope and adjacent endoplasmic reticulum.
LTK	The protein encoded by this gene is a member of the ros/insulin receptor family of tyrosine kinases. Tyrosine-specific phosphorylation of proteins is a key to the control of diverse pathways leading to cell growth and differentiation. Multiple transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been found for this gene.
LY96	This gene encodes a protein which associates with toll-like receptor 4 on the cell surface and confers responsiveness to lipopolysaccyaride (LPS), thus providing a link between the receptor and LPS signaling. Studies of the mouse ortholog suggest that this gene may be involved in endotoxin neutralization. Alternative splicing results in multiple transcript variants encoding different isoforms.
LYN	This gene encodes a tyrosine protein kinase, which maybe involved in the regulation of mast cell degranulation, and erythroid differentiation. Alternatively spliced transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been found for this gene.
LYPLA1	This gene encodes a member of the alpha/beta hydrolase superfamily. The encoded protein functions as a homodimer, exhibiting both depalmitoylating as well as lysophospholipase activity, and may be involved in Ras localization and signaling. Alternate splicing results in multiple transcript variants. Pseudogenes of this gene have been defined on chromosomes 4, 6, and 7.
LYPLA2	Lysophospholipases are enzymes that act on biological membranes to regulate the multifunctional lysophospholipids. There are alternatively spliced transcript variants described for this gene but the full length nature is not known yet.
LYPLAL1	Has depalmitoylating activity toward KCNMA1. Does not exhibit phospholipase nor triacylglycerol lipase activity, able to hydrolyze only short chain substrates due to its shallow active site.
M6PR	This gene encodes a member of the P-type lectin family. P-type lectins play a critical role in lysosome function through the specific transport of mannose-6-phosphate-containing acid hydrolases from the Golgi complex to lysosomes. The encoded protein functions as a homodimer and requires divalent cations for ligand binding. Alternatively spliced transcript variants encoding multiple isoforms have been observed for this gene. A pseudogene of this gene is located on the long arm of chromosome X.
MADCAM1	The protein encoded by this gene is an endothelial cell adhesion molecule that interacts preferentially with the leukocyte beta7 integrin LPAM-1 (alpha4beta7), L-selectin, and VLA-4 (alpha4beta1) on myeloid cells to direct leukocytes into mucosal and inflamed tissues. It is a member of the immunoglobulin family and is similar to ICAM1 and VCAM1. At least seven alternatively spliced transcripts encoding different protein isoforms have been found for this gene, but the full-length nature of some variants has not been determined.
MAFK	The developmentally regulated expression of the globin genes depends on upstream regulatory elements termed locus control regions (LCRs). LCRs are associated with powerful enhancer activity that is mediated by the transcription factor NFE2 (nuclear factor erythroid-2). NFE2 recognition sites are also present in the gene promoters of 2 heme biosynthetic enzymes, porphobilinogen deaminase (PBGD; MIM 609806) and ferrochelatase (FECH; MIM 612386). NFE2 DNA-binding activity consists of a heterodimer containing an 18-kD Maf protein (MafF, MafG (MIM 602020), or MafK) and p45 (MIM 601490). Both subunits are members of the activator protein-1 superfamily of basic leucine zipper (bZIP) proteins (see MIM 165160). Maf homodimers suppress transcription at NFE2 sites.
MAG	The protein encoded by this gene is a type I membrane protein and member of the immunoglobulin superfamily. It is thought to be involved in the process of myelination. It is a lectin that binds to sialylated glycoconjugates and mediates certain myelin-neuron cell-cell interactions. Three alternatively spliced transcripts encoding different isoforms have been described for this gene.
MAGI3	Acts as a scaffolding protein at cell-cell junctions, thereby regulating various cellular and signaling processes. Cooperates with PTEN to modulate the kinase activity of AKT1. Its interaction with PTPRB and tyrosine phosphorylated proteins suggests that it may link receptor tyrosine phosphatase with its substrates at the plasma membrane. In polarized epithelial cells, involved in efficient trafficking of TGFA to the cell surface. Regulates the ability of LPAR2 to activate ERK and RhoA pathways. Regulates the JNK signaling cascade via its interaction with FZD4 and VANGL2.
MAK	The product of this gene is a serine/threonine protein kinase related to kinases involved in cell cycle regulation. Studies of the mouse and rat homologs have localized the kinase to the chromosomes during meiosis in spermatogenesis, specifically to the synaptonemal complex that exists while homologous chromosomes are paired. Mutations in this gene have been associated with ciliary defects resulting in retinitis pigmentosa 62. Alternative splicing results in multiple transcript variants.
MALT1	This gene encodes a caspase-like protease that plays a role in BCL10-induced activation of NF-kappaB. The protein is a component of the CARMA1-BCL10-MALT1 (CBM) signalosome that triggers NF-kappaB signaling and lymphoctye activation following antigen-receptor stimulation. Mutations in this gene result in immunodeficiency 12 (IMD12). This gene has been found to be recurrently rearranged in chromosomal translocations with other genes in mucosa-associated lymphoid tissue lymphomas, including a t(11;18)(q21;q21) translocation with the baculoviral IAP repeat-containing protein 3 (also known as apoptosis inhibitor 2) locus
MAN1A1	This gene encodes a class I mammalian Golgi 1,2-mannosidase which is a type II transmembrane protein. This protein catalyzes the hydrolysis of three terminal mannose residues from peptide-bound Man(9)-GlcNAc(2) oligosaccharides and belongs to family 47 of glycosyl hydrolases.
MAN1B1	This gene encodes an enzyme belonging to the glycosyl hydrolase 47 family. This enzyme functions in N-glycan biosynthesis, and is a class I alpha-1,2-mannosidase that specifically converts Man9GlcNAc to Man8GlcNAc isomer B. It is required for N-glycan trimming to Man5-6GlcNAc2 in the endoplasmic-reticulum-associated degradation pathway. Mutations in this gene cause autosomal-recessive intellectual disability. Alternative splicing results in multiple transcript variants. A related pseudogene has been identified on chromosome 11.
MAN2A1	This gene encodes a glycosyl hydrolase that localizes to the Golgi and catalyzes the final hydrolytic step in the asparagine-linked oligosaccharide (N-glycan) maturation pathway. Mutations in the mouse homolog of this gene have been shown to cause a systemic autoimmune disease similar to human systemic lupus erythematosus.
MAN2B1	This gene encodes an enzyme that hydrolyzes terminal, non-reducing alpha-D-mannose residues in alpha-D-mannosides. Its activity is necessary for the catabolism of N-linked carbohydrates released during glycoprotein turnover and it is member of family 38 of glycosyl hydrolases. The full length protein is processed in two steps. First, a 49 aa leader sequence is cleaved off and the remainder of the protein is processed into 3 peptides of 70 kDa, 42 kDa (D) and 13/15 kDa (E). Next, the 70 kDa peptide is further processed into three peptides (A, B and C). The A, B and C peptides are disulfide-linked. Defects in this gene have been associated with lysosomal alpha-mannosidosis. Alternatively spliced transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been found for this gene.
MAN2B2	This gene is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with MAN2B2 include Mannosidosis, Alpha B, Lysosomal. Among its related pathways are Lysosomal oligosaccharide catabolism and Metabolism. Predicted to enable alpha-mannosidase activity. Predicted to be involved in mannose metabolic process. Located in extracellular exosome.
MANBA	This gene encodes a member of the glycosyl hydrolase 2 family. The encoded protein localizes to the lysosome where it is the final exoglycosidase in the pathway for N-linked glycoprotein oligosaccharide catabolism. Mutations in this gene are associated with beta-mannosidosis, a lysosomal storage disease that has a wide spectrum of neurological involvement.
MAOA	This gene is one of two neighboring gene family members that encode mitochondrial enzymes which catalyze the oxidative deamination of amines, such as dopamine, norepinephrine, and serotonin. Mutation of this gene results in Brunner syndrome. This gene has also been associated with a variety of other psychiatric disorders, including antisocial behavior. Alternatively spliced transcript variants encoding multiple isoforms have been observed.
MAOB	The protein encoded by this gene belongs to the flavin monoamine oxidase family. It is a enzyme located in the mitochondrial outer membrane. It catalyzes the oxidative deamination of biogenic and xenobiotic amines and plays an important role in the metabolism of neuroactive and vasoactive amines in the central nervous sysytem and peripheral tissues. This protein preferentially degrades benzylamine and phenylethylamine.
MAP1B	This gene encodes a protein that belongs to the microtubule-associated protein family. The proteins of this family are thought to be involved in microtubule assembly, which is an essential step in neurogenesis. The product of this gene is a precursor polypeptide that presumably undergoes proteolytic processing to generate the final MAP1B heavy chain and LC1 light chain. Gene knockout studies of the mouse microtubule-associated protein 1B gene suggested an important role in development and function of the nervous system.
MAP2	This gene encodes a protein that belongs to the microtubule-associated protein family. The proteins of this family are thought to be involved in microtubule assembly, which is an essential step in neurogenesis. The products of similar genes in rat and mouse are neuron-specific cytoskeletal proteins that are enriched in dentrites, implicating a role in determining and stabilizing dentritic shape during neuron development. A number of alternatively spliced variants encoding distinct isoforms have been described.
MAP2K1	The protein encoded by this gene is a member of the dual specificity protein kinase family, which acts as a mitogen-activated protein (MAP) kinase kinase. MAP kinases, also known as extracellular signal-regulated kinases (ERKs), act as an integration point for multiple biochemical signals. This protein kinase lies upstream of MAP kinases and stimulates the enzymatic activity of MAP kinases upon wide variety of extra- and intracellular signals. As an essential component of MAP kinase signal transduction pathway, this kinase is involved in many cellular processes such as proliferation, differentiation, transcription regulation and development.
MAP2K2	The protein encoded by this gene is a dual specificity protein kinase that belongs to the MAP kinase kinase family. This kinase is known to play a critical role in mitogen growth factor signal transduction. It phosphorylates and thus activates MAPK1/ERK2 and MAPK2/ERK3. The activation of this kinase itself is dependent on the Ser/Thr phosphorylation by MAP kinase kinase kinases. Mutations in this gene cause cardiofaciocutaneous syndrome (CFC syndrome), a disease characterized by heart defects, cognitive disability, and distinctive facial features similar to those found in Noonan syndrome. The inhibition or degradation of this kinase is also found to be involved in the pathogenesis of Yersinia and anthrax. A pseudogene, which is located on chromosome 7, has been identified for this gene.
MAP2K3	The protein encoded by this gene is a dual specificity protein kinase that belongs to the MAP kinase kinase family. This kinase is activated by mitogenic and environmental stress, and participates in the MAP kinase-mediated signaling cascade. It phosphorylates and thus activates MAPK14/p38-MAPK. This kinase can be activated by insulin, and is necessary for the expression of glucose transporter. Expression of RAS oncogene is found to result in the accumulation of the active form of this kinase, which thus leads to the constitutive activation of MAPK14, and confers oncogenic transformation of primary cells. The inhibition of this kinase is involved in the pathogenesis of Yersina pseudotuberculosis. Multiple alternatively spliced transcript variants that encode distinct isoforms have been reported for this gene.
MAP2K4	This gene encodes a member of the mitogen-activated protein kinase (MAPK) family. Members of this family act as an integration point for multiple biochemical signals and are involved in a wide variety of cellular processes such as proliferation, differentiation, transcription regulation, and development. They form a three-tiered signaling module composed of MAPKKKs, MAPKKs, and MAPKs. This protein is phosphorylated at serine and threonine residues by MAPKKKs and subsequently phosphorylates downstream MAPK targets at threonine and tyrosine residues. A similar protein in mouse has been reported to play a role in liver organogenesis. A pseudogene of this gene is located on the long arm of chromosome X. Alternative splicing results in multiple transcript variants.
MAP2K5	The protein encoded by this gene is a dual specificity protein kinase that belongs to the MAP kinase kinase family. This kinase specifically interacts with and activates MAPK7/ERK5. This kinase itself can be phosphorylated and activated by MAP3K3/MEKK3, as well as by atypical protein kinase C isoforms (aPKCs). The signal cascade mediated by this kinase is involved in growth factor stimulated cell proliferation and muscle cell differentiation. Three alternatively spliced transcript variants of this gene encoding distinct isoforms have been described.
MAP2K6	This gene encodes a member of the dual specificity protein kinase family, which functions as a mitogen-activated protein (MAP) kinase kinase. MAP kinases, also known as extracellular signal-regulated kinases (ERKs), act as an integration point for multiple biochemical signals. This protein phosphorylates and activates p38 MAP kinase in response to inflammatory cytokines or environmental stress. As an essential component of p38 MAP kinase mediated signal transduction pathway, this gene is involved in many cellular processes such as stress induced cell cycle arrest, transcription activation and apoptosis.
MAP2K7	The protein encoded by this gene is a dual specificity protein kinase that belongs to the MAP kinase kinase family. This kinase specifically activates MAPK8/JNK1 and MAPK9/JNK2, and this kinase itself is phosphorylated and activated by MAP kinase kinase kinases including MAP3K1/MEKK1, MAP3K2/MEKK2,MAP3K3/MEKK5, and MAP4K2/GCK. This kinase is involved in the signal transduction mediating the cell responses to proinflammatory cytokines, and environmental stresses. Alternative splicing results in multiple transcript variants.
MAP3K1	The protein encoded by this gene is a serine/threonine kinase and is part of some signal transduction cascades, including the ERK and JNK kinase pathways as well as the NF-kappa-B pathway. The encoded protein is activated by autophosphorylation and requires magnesium as a cofactor in phosphorylating other proteins. This protein has E3 ligase activity conferred by a plant homeodomain (PHD) in its N-terminus and phospho-kinase activity conferred by a kinase domain in its C-terminus.
MAP3K10	The protein encoded by this gene is a member of the serine/threonine kinase family. This kinase has been shown to activate MAPK8/JNK and MKK4/SEK1, and this kinase itself can be phoshorylated, and thus activated by JNK kinases. This kinase functions preferentially on the JNK signaling pathway, and is reported to be involved in nerve growth factor (NGF) induced neuronal apoptosis.
MAP3K11	The protein encoded by this gene is a member of the serine/threonine kinase family. This kinase contains a SH3 domain and a leucine zipper-basic motif. This kinase preferentially activates MAPK8/JNK kinase, and functions as a positive regulator of JNK signaling pathway. This kinase can directly phosphorylate, and activates IkappaB kinase alpha and beta, and is found to be involved in the transcription activity of NF-kappaB mediated by Rho family GTPases and CDC42.
MAP3K12	This gene encodes a member of the serine/threonine protein kinase family. This kinase contains a leucine-zipper domain and is predominately expressed in neuronal cells. The phosphorylation state of this kinase in synaptic terminals was shown to be regulated by membrane depolarization via calcineurin. This kinase forms heterodimers with leucine zipper containing transcription factors, such as cAMP responsive element binding protein (CREB) and MYC, and thus may play a regulatory role in PKA or retinoic acid induced neuronal differentiation. Alternatively spliced transcript variants encoding different proteins have been described.
MAP3K13	The protein encoded by this gene is a member of serine/threonine protein kinase family. This kinase contains a dual leucine-zipper motif, and has been shown to form dimers/oligomers through its leucine-zipper motif. This kinase can phosphorylate and activate MAPK8/JNK, MAP2K7/MKK7, which suggests a role in the JNK signaling pathway.
MAP3K2	The protein encoded by this gene is a member of serine/threonine protein kinase family. This kinase preferentially activates other kinases involved in the MAP kinase signaling pathway. This kinase has been shown to directly phosphorylate and activate Ikappa B kinases, and thus plays a role in NF-kappa B signaling pathway. This kinase has also been found to bind and activate protein kinase C-related kinase 2, which suggests its involvement in a regulated signaling process.
MAP3K3	This gene product is a 626-amino acid polypeptide that is 96.5% identical to mouse Mekk3. Its catalytic domain is closely related to those of several other kinases, including mouse Mekk2, tobacco NPK, and yeast Ste11. Northern blot analysis revealed a 4.6-kb transcript that appears to be ubiquitously expressed. This protein directly regulates the stress-activated protein kinase (SAPK) and extracellular signal-regulated protein kinase (ERK) pathways by activating SEK and MEK1/2 respectively; it does not regulate the p38 pathway. In cotransfection assays, it enhanced transcription from a nuclear factor kappa-B (NFKB)-dependent reporter gene, consistent with a role in the SAPK pathway. Alternatively spliced transcript variants encoding distinct isoforms have been observed.
MAP3K4	The central core of each mitogen-activated protein kinase (MAPK) pathway is a conserved cascade of 3 protein kinases: an activated MAPK kinase kinase (MAPKKK) phosphorylates and activates a specific MAPK kinase (MAPKK), which then activates a specific MAPK. While the ERK MAPKs are activated by mitogenic stimulation, the CSBP2 and JNK MAPKs are activated by environmental stresses such as osmotic shock, UV irradiation, wound stress, and inflammatory factors. This gene encodes a MAPKKK, the MEKK4 protein, also called MTK1. This protein contains a protein kinase catalytic domain at the C terminus. The N-terminal nonkinase domain may contain a regulatory domain. Expression of MEKK4 in mammalian cells activated the CSBP2 and JNK MAPK pathways, but not the ERK pathway. In vitro kinase studies indicated that recombinant MEKK4 can specifically phosphorylate and activate PRKMK6 and SERK1, MAPKKs that activate CSBP2 and JNK, respectively but cannot phosphorylate PRKMK1, an MAPKK that activates ERKs. MEKK4 is a major mediator of environmental stresses that activate the CSBP2 MAPK pathway, and a minor mediator of the JNK pathway. Several alternatively spliced transcripts encoding distinct isoforms have been described.
MAP3K5	Mitogen-activated protein kinase (MAPK) signaling cascades include MAPK or extracellular signal-regulated kinase (ERK), MAPK kinase (MKK or MEK), and MAPK kinase kinase (MAPKKK or MEKK). MAPKK kinase/MEKK phosphorylates and activates its downstream protein kinase, MAPK kinase/MEK, which in turn activates MAPK. The kinases of these signaling cascades are highly conserved, and homologs exist in yeast, Drosophila, and mammalian cells. MAPKKK5 contains 1,374 amino acids with all 11 kinase subdomains. Northern blot analysis shows that MAPKKK5 transcript is abundantly expressed in human heart and pancreas. The MAPKKK5 protein phosphorylates and activates MKK4 (aliases SERK1, MAPKK4) in vitro, and activates c-Jun N-terminal kinase (JNK)/stress-activated protein kinase (SAPK) during transient expression in COS and 293 cells; MAPKKK5 does not activate MAPK/ERK.
MAP3K6	This gene encodes a serine/threonine protein kinase that forms a component of protein kinase-mediated signal transduction cascades. The encoded kinase participates in the regulation of vascular endothelial growth factor (VEGF) expression. Alternative splicing results in multiple transcript variants.
MAP3K7	The protein encoded by this gene is a member of the serine/threonine protein kinase family. This kinase mediates the signaling transduction induced by TGF beta and morphogenetic protein (BMP), and controls a variety of cell functions including transcription regulation and apoptosis. In response to IL-1, this protein forms a kinase complex including TRAF6, MAP3K7P1/TAB1 and MAP3K7P2/TAB2; this complex is required for the activation of nuclear factor kappa B. This kinase can also activate MAPK8/JNK, MAP2K4/MKK4, and thus plays a role in the cell response to environmental stresses. Four alternatively spliced transcript variants encoding distinct isoforms have been reported.
MAP3K8	This gene is an oncogene that encodes a member of the serine/threonine protein kinase family. The encoded protein localizes to the cytoplasm and can activate both the MAP kinase and JNK kinase pathways. This protein was shown to activate IkappaB kinases, and thus induce the nuclear production of NF-kappaB. This protein was also found to promote the production of TNF-alpha and IL-2 during T lymphocyte activation. This gene may also utilize a downstream in-frame translation start codon, and thus produce an isoform containing a shorter N-terminus. The shorter isoform has been shown to display weaker transforming activity. Alternate splicing results in multiple transcript variants that encode the same protein.
MAP3K9	Serine/threonine kinase which acts as an essential component of the MAP kinase signal transduction pathway. Plays an important role in the cascades of cellular responses evoked by changes in the environment. Once activated, acts as an upstream activator of the MKK/JNK signal transduction cascade through the phosphorylation of MAP2K4/MKK4 and MAP2K7/MKK7 which in turn activate the JNKs. The MKK/JNK signaling pathway regulates stress response via activator protein-1 (JUN) and GATA4 transcription factors. Plays also a role in mitochondrial death signaling pathway, including the release cytochrome c, leading to apoptosis.
MAP4K1	Serine/threonine-protein kinase, which may play a role in the response to environmental stress. Appears to act upstream of the JUN N-terminal pathway. May play a role in hematopoietic lineage decisions and growth regulation. Able to autophosphorylate.
MAP4K2	The protein encoded by this gene is a member of the serine/threonine protein kinase family. Although this kinase is found in many tissues, its expression in lymphoid follicles is restricted to the cells of germinal centre, where it may participate in B-cell differentiation. This kinase can be activated by TNF-alpha, and has been shown to specifically activate MAP kinases. This kinase is also found to interact with TNF receptor-associated factor 2 (TRAF2), which is involved in the activation of MAP3K1/MEKK1. Alternative splicing results in multiple transcript variants.
MAP4K3	This gene encodes a member of the mitogen-activated protein kinase kinase kinase kinase family. The encoded protein activates key effectors in cell signalling, among them c-Jun. Alternatively spliced transcripts encoding multiple isoforms have been observed for this gene.
MAP4K4	The protein encoded by this gene is a member of the serine/threonine protein kinase family. This kinase has been shown to specifically activate MAPK8/JNK. The activation of MAPK8 by this kinase is found to be inhibited by the dominant-negative mutants of MAP3K7/TAK1, MAP2K4/MKK4, and MAP2K7/MKK7, which suggests that this kinase may function through the MAP3K7-MAP2K4-MAP2K7 kinase cascade, and mediate the TNF-alpha signaling pathway. Alternatively spliced transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been identified.
MAP4K5	This gene encodes a member of the serine/threonine protein kinase family, that is highly similar to yeast SPS1/STE20 kinase. Yeast SPS1/STE20 functions near the beginning of the MAP kinase signal cascades that is essential for yeast pheromone response. This kinase was shown to activate Jun kinase in mammalian cells, which suggested a role in stress response. Two alternatively spliced transcript variants encoding the same protein have been described for this gene.
MAPK1	This gene encodes a member of the MAP kinase family. MAP kinases, also known as extracellular signal-regulated kinases (ERKs), act as an integration point for multiple biochemical signals, and are involved in a wide variety of cellular processes such as proliferation, differentiation, transcription regulation and development. The activation of this kinase requires its phosphorylation by upstream kinases. Upon activation, this kinase translocates to the nucleus of the stimulated cells, where it phosphorylates nuclear targets. One study also suggests that this protein acts as a transcriptional repressor independent of its kinase activity. The encoded protein has been identified as a moonlighting protein based on its ability to perform mechanistically distinct functions. Two alternatively spliced transcript variants encoding the same protein, but differing in the UTRs, have been reported for this gene.
MAPK10	The protein encoded by this gene is a member of the MAP kinase family. MAP kinases act as integration points for multiple biochemical signals, and thus are involved in a wide variety of cellular processes, such as proliferation, differentiation, transcription regulation and development. This kinase is specifically expressed in a subset of neurons in the nervous system, and is activated by threonine and tyrosine phosphorylation. Targeted deletion of this gene in mice suggests that it may have a role in stress-induced neuronal apoptosis. Alternatively spliced transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been described for this gene. A recent study provided evidence for translational readthrough in this gene, and expression of an additional C-terminally extended isoform via the use of an alternative in-frame translation termination codon.
MAPK11	This gene encodes a member of a family of protein kinases that are involved in the integration of biochemical signals for a wide variety of cellular processes, including cell proliferation, differentiation, transcriptional regulation, and development. The encoded protein can be activated by proinflammatory cytokines and environmental stresses through phosphorylation by mitogen activated protein kinase kinases (MKKs). Alternative splicing results in multiple transcript variants.
MAPK12	Activation of members of the mitogen-activated protein kinase family is a major mechanism for transduction of extracellular signals. Stress-activated protein kinases are one subclass of MAP kinases. The protein encoded by this gene functions as a signal transducer during differentiation of myoblasts to myotubes.
MAPK13	This gene encodes a member of the mitogen-activated protein (MAP) kinase family. MAP kinases act as an integration point for multiple biochemical signals, and are involved in a wide variety of cellular processes such as proliferation, differentiation, transcription regulation and development. The encoded protein is a p38 MAP kinase and is activated by proinflammatory cytokines and cellular stress. Substrates of the encoded protein include the transcription factor ATF2 and the microtubule dynamics regulator stathmin. Alternatively spliced transcript variants have been observed for this gene.
MAPK14	The protein encoded by this gene is a member of the MAP kinase family. MAP kinases act as an integration point for multiple biochemical signals, and are involved in a wide variety of cellular processes such as proliferation, differentiation, transcription regulation and development. This kinase is activated by various environmental stresses and proinflammatory cytokines. The activation requires its phosphorylation by MAP kinase kinases (MKKs), or its autophosphorylation triggered by the interaction of MAP3K7IP1/TAB1 protein with this kinase. The substrates of this kinase include transcription regulator ATF2, MEF2C, and MAX, cell cycle regulator CDC25B, and tumor suppressor p53, which suggest the roles of this kinase in stress related transcription and cell cycle regulation, as well as in genotoxic stress response. Four alternatively spliced transcript variants of this gene encoding distinct isoforms have been reported.
MAPK15	Atypical MAPK protein that regulates several process such as autophagy, ciliogenesis, protein trafficking/secretion and genome integrity, in a kinase activity-dependent manner .
MAPK3	The protein encoded by this gene is a member of the MAP kinase family. MAP kinases, also known as extracellular signal-regulated kinases (ERKs), act in a signaling cascade that regulates various cellular processes such as proliferation, differentiation, and cell cycle progression in response to a variety of extracellular signals. This kinase is activated by upstream kinases, resulting in its translocation to the nucleus where it phosphorylates nuclear targets. Alternatively spliced transcript variants encoding different protein isoforms have been described.
MAPK4	Mitogen-activated protein kinase 4 is a member of the mitogen-activated protein kinase family. Tyrosine kinase growth factor receptors activate mitogen-activated protein kinases which then translocate into the nucleus and phosphorylate nuclear targets. Alternative splicing results in multiple transcript variants.
MAPK6	The protein encoded by this gene is a member of the Ser/Thr protein kinase family, and is most closely related to mitogen-activated protein kinases (MAP kinases). MAP kinases also known as extracellular signal-regulated kinases (ERKs), are activated through protein phosphorylation cascades and act as integration points for multiple biochemical signals. This kinase is localized in the nucleus, and has been reported to be activated in fibroblasts upon treatment with serum or phorbol esters.
MAPK7	The protein encoded by this gene is a member of the MAP kinase family. MAP kinases act as an integration point for multiple biochemical signals, and are involved in a wide variety of cellular processes such as proliferation, differentiation, transcription regulation and development. This kinase is specifically activated by mitogen-activated protein kinase kinase 5 (MAP2K5/MEK5). It is involved in the downstream signaling processes of various receptor molecules including receptor type kinases, and G protein-coupled receptors. In response to extracelluar signals, this kinase translocates to cell nucleus, where it regulates gene expression by phosphorylating, and activating different transcription factors. Four alternatively spliced transcript variants of this gene encoding two distinct isoforms have been reported.
MAPK8	The protein encoded by this gene is a member of the MAP kinase family. MAP kinases act as an integration point for multiple biochemical signals, and are involved in a wide variety of cellular processes such as proliferation, differentiation, transcription regulation and development. This kinase is activated by various cell stimuli, and targets specific transcription factors, and thus mediates immediate-early gene expression in response to cell stimuli. The activation of this kinase by tumor-necrosis factor alpha (TNF-alpha) is found to be required for TNF-alpha induced apoptosis. This kinase is also involved in UV radiation induced apoptosis, which is thought to be related to cytochrom c-mediated cell death pathway. Studies of the mouse counterpart of this gene suggested that this kinase play a key role in T cell proliferation, apoptosis and differentiation. Several alternatively spliced transcript variants encoding distinct isoforms have been reported.
MAPK9	The protein encoded by this gene is a member of the MAP kinase family. MAP kinases act as an integration point for multiple biochemical signals, and are involved in a wide variety of cellular processes such as proliferation, differentiation, transcription regulation and development. This kinase targets specific transcription factors, and thus mediates immediate-early gene expression in response to various cell stimuli. It is most closely related to MAPK8, both of which are involved in UV radiation induced apoptosis, thought to be related to the cytochrome c-mediated cell death pathway. This gene and MAPK8 are also known as c-Jun N-terminal kinases. This kinase blocks the ubiquitination of tumor suppressor p53, and thus it increases the stability of p53 in nonstressed cells. Studies of this gene's mouse counterpart suggest a key role in T-cell differentiation. Several alternatively spliced transcript variants encoding distinct isoforms have been reported.
MAPKAPK2	This gene encodes a member of the Ser/Thr protein kinase family. This kinase is regulated through direct phosphorylation by p38 MAP kinase. In conjunction with p38 MAP kinase, this kinase is known to be involved in many cellular processes including stress and inflammatory responses, nuclear export, gene expression regulation and cell proliferation. Heat shock protein HSP27 was shown to be one of the substrates of this kinase in vivo. Two transcript variants encoding two different isoforms have been found for this gene.
MAPKAPK3	This gene encodes a member of the Ser/Thr protein kinase family. This kinase functions as a mitogen-activated protein kinase (MAP kinase)- activated protein kinase. MAP kinases are also known as extracellular signal-regulated kinases (ERKs), act as an integration point for multiple biochemical signals. This kinase was shown to be activated by growth inducers and stress stimulation of cells. In vitro studies demonstrated that ERK, p38 MAP kinase and Jun N-terminal kinase were all able to phosphorylate and activate this kinase, which suggested the role of this kinase as an integrative element of signaling in both mitogen and stress responses. This kinase was reported to interact with, phosphorylate and repress the activity of E47, which is a basic helix-loop-helix transcription factor known to be involved in the regulation of tissue-specific gene expression and cell differentiation. Alternate splicing results in multiple transcript variants that encode the same protein.
MAPKAPK5	The protein encoded by this gene is a tumor suppressor and member of the serine/threonine kinase family. In response to cellular stress and proinflammatory cytokines, this kinase is activated through its phosphorylation by MAP kinases including MAPK1/ERK, MAPK14/p38-alpha, and MAPK11/p38-beta. The encoded protein is found in the nucleus but translocates to the cytoplasm upon phosphorylation and activation. This kinase phosphorylates heat shock protein HSP27 at its physiologically relevant sites. Two alternately spliced transcript variants of this gene encoding distinct isoforms have been reported.
MAPT	This gene encodes the microtubule-associated protein tau (MAPT) whose transcript undergoes complex, regulated alternative splicing, giving rise to several mRNA species. MAPT transcripts are differentially expressed in the nervous system, depending on stage of neuronal maturation and neuron type. MAPT gene mutations have been associated with several neurodegenerative disorders such as Alzheimer's disease, Pick's disease, frontotemporal dementia, cortico-basal degeneration and progressive supranuclear palsy.
MARC1	As a component of an N-hydroxylated prodrug-converting complex required to reduce N-hydroxylated prodrugs, such as benzamidoxime. Also able to reduce N(omega)-hydroxy-L-arginine (NOHA) and N(omega)-hydroxy-N(delta)-methyl-L-arginine (NHAM) into L-arginine and N(delta)-methyl-L-arginine, respectively.
MARK1	Serine/threonine-protein kinase .
MARK2	This gene encodes a member of the Par-1 family of serine/threonine protein kinases. The protein is an important regulator of cell polarity in epithelial and neuronal cells, and also controls the stability of microtubules through phosphorylation and inactivation of several microtubule-associating proteins. The protein localizes to cell membranes. Multiple transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been found for this gene.
MARK3	The protein encoded by this gene is activated by phosphorylation and in turn is involved in the phosphorylation of tau proteins MAP2 and MAP4. Several transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been found for this gene.
MARK4	This gene encodes a member of the microtubule affinity-regulating kinase family. These protein kinases phosphorylate microtubule-associated proteins and regulate the transition between stable and dynamic microtubules. The encoded protein is associated with the centrosome throughout mitosis and may be involved in cell cycle control. Expression of this gene is a potential marker for cancer, and the encoded protein may also play a role in Alzheimer's disease. Pseudogenes of this gene are located on both the short and long arm of chromosome 3. Alternatively spliced transcript variants encoding multiple isoforms have been observed for this gene.
MARS	This gene encodes a member of the class I family of aminoacyl-tRNA synthetases. These enzymes play a critical role in protein biosynthesis by charging tRNAs with their cognate amino acids. The encoded protein is a component of the multi-tRNA synthetase complex and catalyzes the ligation of methionine to tRNA molecules.
MAS1	This gene encodes a class I seven-transmembrane G-protein-coupled receptor. The encoded protein is a receptor for angiotensin-(1-7) and preferentially couples to the Gq protein, activating the phospholipase C signaling pathway. The encoded protein may play a role in multiple processes including hypotension, smooth muscle relaxation and cardioprotection by mediating the effects of angiotensin-(1-7).
MAST1	This gene is a member of the microtubule-associated serine/threonine kinase (MAST) family. The protein encoded by this gene has an N-terminal serine/threonine kinase domain followed by a postsynaptic density protein-95/discs large/zona occludens-1 (PDZ) domain. In mouse and rat, the orthologous protein associates with the cytoskeleton and can bind both beta-2-syntrophin and neuronal nitric oxide synthase (nNOS) through its PDZ domain. In mouse and rat, this protein also co-localizes with dystrophin- and utrophin-associated protein complexes (DAPC/UAPC) in the vascular endothelium of the central nervous system.
MAST2	Appears to link the dystrophin/utrophin network with microtubule filaments via the syntrophins. Phosphorylation of DMD or UTRN may modulate their affinities for associated proteins. Functions in a multi-protein complex in spermatid maturation. Regulates lipopolysaccharide-induced IL-12 synthesis in macrophages by forming a complex with TRAF6, resulting in the inhibition of TRAF6 NF-kappa-B activation (By similarity).
MAT2A	The protein encoded by this gene catalyzes the production of S-adenosylmethionine (AdoMet) from methionine and ATP. AdoMet is the key methyl donor in cellular processes.
MATK	The protein encoded by this gene has amino acid sequence similarity to Csk tyrosine kinase and has the structural features of the CSK subfamily: SRC homology SH2 and SH3 domains, a catalytic domain, a unique N terminus, lack of myristylation signals, lack of a negative regulatory phosphorylation site, and lack of an autophosphorylation site. This protein is thought to play a significant role in the signal transduction of hematopoietic cells. It is able to phosphorylate and inactivate Src family kinases, and may play an inhibitory role in the control of T-cell proliferation. This protein might be involved in signaling in some cases of breast cancer. Three alternatively spliced transcript variants that encode different isoforms have been described for this gene.
MAX	The protein encoded by this gene is a member of the basic helix-loop-helix leucine zipper (bHLHZ) family of transcription factors. It is able to form homodimers and heterodimers with other family members, which include Mad, Mxi1 and Myc. Myc is an oncoprotein implicated in cell proliferation, differentiation and apoptosis. The homodimers and heterodimers compete for a common DNA target site (the E box) and rearrangement among these dimer forms provides a complex system of transcriptional regulation. Mutations of this gene have been reported to be associated with hereditary pheochromocytoma. A pseudogene of this gene is located on the long arm of chromosome 7. Alternative splicing results in multiple transcript variants.
MB	This gene encodes a member of the globin superfamily and is expressed in skeletal and cardiac muscles. The encoded protein is a haemoprotein contributing to intracellular oxygen storage and transcellular facilitated diffusion of oxygen. At least three alternatively spliced transcript variants encoding the same protein have been reported.
MBD2	DNA methylation is the major modification of eukaryotic genomes and plays an essential role in mammalian development. Human proteins MECP2, MBD1, MBD2, MBD3, and MBD4 comprise a family of nuclear proteins related by the presence in each of a methyl-CpG binding domain (MBD). Each of these proteins, with the exception of MBD3, is capable of binding specifically to methylated DNA. MECP2, MBD1 and MBD2 can also repress transcription from methylated gene promoters. The protein encoded by this gene may function as a mediator of the biological consequences of the methylation signal. It is also reported that the this protein functions as a demethylase to activate transcription, as DNA methylation causes gene silencing. Two transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been found for this gene.
MBL2	This gene encodes the soluble mannose-binding lectin or mannose-binding protein found in serum. The protein encoded belongs to the collectin family and is an important element in the innate immune system. The protein recognizes mannose and N-acetylglucosamine on many microorganisms, and is capable of activating the classical complement pathway. Deficiencies of this gene have been associated with susceptibility to autoimmune and infectious diseases.
MBNL1	This gene encodes a member of the muscleblind protein family which was initially described in Drosophila melanogaster. The encoded protein is a C3H-type zinc finger protein that modulates alternative splicing of pre-mRNAs. Muscleblind proteins bind specifically to expanded dsCUG RNA but not to normal size CUG repeats and may thereby play a role in the pathophysiology of myotonic dystrophy. Mice lacking this gene exhibited muscle abnormalities and cataracts. Several alternatively spliced transcript variants have been described but the full-length natures of only some have been determined. The different isoforms are thought to have different binding specificities and/or splicing activities.
MBTD1	Putative Polycomb group (PcG) protein. PcG proteins maintain the transcriptionally repressive state of genes, probably via a modification of chromatin, rendering it heritably changed in its expressibility (By similarity). Specifically binds to monomethylated and dimethylated 'Lys-20' on histone H4.
MBTPS1	This gene encodes a member of the subtilisin-like proprotein convertase family, which includes proteases that process protein and peptide precursors trafficking through regulated or constitutive branches of the secretory pathway. The encoded protein undergoes an initial autocatalytic processing event in the ER to generate a heterodimer which exits the ER and sorts to the cis/medial-Golgi where a second autocatalytic event takes place and the catalytic activity is acquired. It encodes a type 1 membrane bound protease which is ubiquitously expressed and regulates cholesterol or lipid homeostasis via cleavage of substrates at non-basic residues. Mutations in this gene may be associated with lysosomal dysfunction.
MC1R	This intronless gene encodes the receptor protein for melanocyte-stimulating hormone (MSH). The encoded protein, a seven pass transmembrane G protein coupled receptor, controls melanogenesis. Two types of melanin exist: red pheomelanin and black eumelanin. Gene mutations that lead to a loss in function are associated with increased pheomelanin production, which leads to lighter skin and hair color. Eumelanin is photoprotective but pheomelanin may contribute to UV-induced skin damage by generating free radicals upon UV radiation. Binding of MSH to its receptor activates the receptor and stimulates eumelanin synthesis. This receptor is a major determining factor in sun sensitivity and is a genetic risk factor for melanoma and non-melanoma skin cancer. Over 30 variant alleles have been identified which correlate with skin and hair color, providing evidence that this gene is an important component in determining normal human pigment variation.
MC2R	MC2R encodes one member of the five-member G-protein associated melanocortin receptor family. Melanocortins (melanocyte-stimulating hormones and adrenocorticotropic hormone) are peptides derived from pro-opiomelanocortin (POMC). MC2R is selectively activated by adrenocorticotropic hormone, whereas the other four melanocortin receptors recognize a variety of melanocortin ligands. Mutations in MC2R can result in familial glucocorticoid deficiency. Alternate transcript variants have been found for this gene.
MC3R	This gene encodes a G-protein-coupled receptor for melanocyte-stimulating hormone and adrenocorticotropic hormone that is expressed in tissues other than the adrenal cortex and melanocytes. This gene maps to the same region as the locus for benign neonatal epilepsy. Mice deficient for this gene have increased fat mass despite decreased food intake, suggesting a role for this gene product in the regulation of energy homeostasis. Mutations in this gene are associated with a susceptibility to obesity in humans.
MC4R	The protein encoded by this gene is a membrane-bound receptor and member of the melanocortin receptor family. The encoded protein interacts with adrenocorticotropic and MSH hormones and is mediated by G proteins. This is an intronless gene. Defects in this gene are a cause of autosomal dominant obesity.
MC5R	This gene encodes a member of the seven-pass transmembrane G protein-coupled melanocortin receptor protein family that stimulate cAMP signal transduction. The encoded protein is a receptor for melanocyte-stimulating hormone and adrenocorticotropic hormone and is suggested to play a role in sebum generation.
MCAM	Plays a role in cell adhesion, and in cohesion of the endothelial monolayer at intercellular junctions in vascular tissue. Its expression may allow melanoma cells to interact with cellular elements of the vascular system, thereby enhancing hematogeneous tumor spread. Could be an adhesion molecule active in neural crest cells during embryonic development. Acts as surface receptor that triggers tyrosine phosphorylation of FYN and PTK2/FAK1, and a transient increase in the intracellular calcium concentration.
MCHR1	The protein encoded by this gene, a member of the G protein-coupled receptor family 1, is an integral plasma membrane protein which binds melanin-concentrating hormone. The encoded protein can inhibit cAMP accumulation and stimulate intracellular calcium flux, and is probably involved in the neuronal regulation of food consumption. Although structurally similar to somatostatin receptors, this protein does not seem to bind somatostatin.
MCHR2	Receptor for melanin-concentrating hormone, coupled to G proteins that activate phosphoinositide hydrolysis.
MCL1	This gene encodes an anti-apoptotic protein, which is a member of the Bcl-2 family. Alternative splicing results in multiple transcript variants. The longest gene product (isoform 1) enhances cell survival by inhibiting apoptosis while the alternatively spliced shorter gene products (isoform 2 and isoform 3) promote apoptosis and are death-inducing.
MCM2	The protein encoded by this gene is one of the highly conserved mini-chromosome maintenance proteins (MCM) that are involved in the initiation of eukaryotic genome replication. The hexameric protein complex formed by MCM proteins is a key component of the pre-replication complex (pre_RC) and may be involved in the formation of replication forks and in the recruitment of other DNA replication related proteins. This protein forms a complex with MCM4, 6, and 7, and has been shown to regulate the helicase activity of the complex. This protein is phosphorylated, and thus regulated by, protein kinases CDC2 and CDC7. Multiple alternatively spliced transcript variants have been found, but the full-length nature of some variants has not been defined.
MCOLN3	This gene encodes one of members of the mucolipin cation channel proteins. Mutation studies of the highly similar protein in mice have shown that the protein is found in cochlea hair cells, and mutant mice show early-onset hearing loss and balance problems. Multiple transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been found for this gene.
MDH1	This gene encodes an enzyme that catalyzes the NAD/NADH-dependent, reversible oxidation of malate to oxaloacetate in many metabolic pathways, including the citric acid cycle. Two main isozymes are known to exist in eukaryotic cells: one is found in the mitochondrial matrix and the other in the cytoplasm. This gene encodes the cytosolic isozyme, which plays a key role in the malate-aspartate shuttle that allows malate to pass through the mitochondrial membrane to be transformed into oxaloacetate for further cellular processes. Alternatively spliced transcript variants have been found for this gene. A recent study showed that a C-terminally extended isoform is produced by use of an alternative in-frame translation termination codon via a stop codon readthrough mechanism, and that this isoform is localized in the peroxisomes. Pseudogenes have been identified on chromosomes X and 6.
MDH2	Malate dehydrogenase catalyzes the reversible oxidation of malate to oxaloacetate, utilizing the NAD/NADH cofactor system in the citric acid cycle. The protein encoded by this gene is localized to the mitochondria and may play pivotal roles in the malate-aspartate shuttle that operates in the metabolic coordination between cytosol and mitochondria. Several transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been found for this gene.
MDK	This gene encodes a member of a small family of secreted growth factors that binds heparin and responds to retinoic acid. The encoded protein promotes cell growth, migration, and angiogenesis, in particular during tumorigenesis. This gene has been targeted as a therapeutic for a variety of different disorders. Alternatively spliced transcript variants encoding multiple isoforms have been observed.
MDM2	This gene encodes a nuclear-localized E3 ubiquitin ligase. The encoded protein can promote tumor formation by targeting tumor suppressor proteins, such as p53, for proteasomal degradation. This gene is itself transcriptionally-regulated by p53. Overexpression or amplification of this locus is detected in a variety of different cancers. There is a pseudogene for this gene on chromosome 2. Alternative splicing results in a multitude of transcript variants, many of which may be expressed only in tumor cells.
MDM4	This gene encodes a nuclear protein that contains a p53 binding domain at the N-terminus and a RING finger domain at the C-terminus, and shows structural similarity to p53-binding protein MDM2. Both proteins bind the p53 tumor suppressor protein and inhibit its activity, and have been shown to be overexpressed in a variety of human cancers. However, unlike MDM2 which degrades p53, this protein inhibits p53 by binding its transcriptional activation domain. This protein also interacts with MDM2 protein via the RING finger domain, and inhibits the latter's degradation. So this protein can reverse MDM2-targeted degradation of p53, while maintaining suppression of p53 transactivation and apoptotic functions. Alternatively spliced transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been noted for this gene.
ME1	This gene encodes a cytosolic, NADP-dependent enzyme that generates NADPH for fatty acid biosynthesis. The activity of this enzyme, the reversible oxidative decarboxylation of malate, links the glycolytic and citric acid cycles. The regulation of expression for this gene is complex. Increased expression can result from elevated levels of thyroid hormones or by higher proportions of carbohydrates in the diet.
ME3	Malic enzyme catalyzes the oxidative decarboxylation of malate to pyruvate using either NAD+ or NADP+ as a cofactor. Mammalian tissues contain 3 distinct isoforms of malic enzyme: a cytosolic NADP(+)-dependent isoform, a mitochondrial NADP(+)-dependent isoform, and a mitochondrial NAD(+)-dependent isoform. This gene encodes a mitochondrial NADP(+)-dependent isoform. Multiple alternatively spliced transcript variants have been found for this gene, but the biological validity of some variants has not been determined.
MECP2	DNA methylation is the major modification of eukaryotic genomes and plays an essential role in mammalian development. Human proteins MECP2, MBD1, MBD2, MBD3, and MBD4 comprise a family of nuclear proteins related by the presence in each of a methyl-CpG binding domain (MBD). Each of these proteins, with the exception of MBD3, is capable of binding specifically to methylated DNA. MECP2, MBD1 and MBD2 can also repress transcription from methylated gene promoters. In contrast to other MBD family members, MECP2 is X-linked and subject to X inactivation. MECP2 is dispensible in stem cells, but is essential for embryonic development. MECP2 gene mutations are the cause of most cases of Rett syndrome, a progressive neurologic developmental disorder and one of the most common causes of cognitive disability in females. Alternative splicing results in multiple transcript variants encoding different isoforms.
MED23	The activation of gene transcription is a multistep process that is triggered by factors that recognize transcriptional enhancer sites in DNA. These factors work with co-activators to direct transcriptional initiation by the RNA polymerase II apparatus. The protein encoded by this gene is a subunit of the CRSP (cofactor required for SP1 activation) complex, which, along with TFIID, is required for efficient activation by SP1. This protein is also a component of other multisubunit complexes e.g. thyroid hormone receptor-(TR-) associated proteins which interact with TR and facilitate TR function on DNA templates in conjunction with initiation factors and cofactors. This protein also acts as a metastasis suppressor. Several alternatively spliced transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been described for this gene.
MELK	Serine/threonine-protein kinase involved in various processes such as cell cycle regulation, self-renewal of stem cells, apoptosis and splicing regulation. Has a broad substrate specificity; phosphorylates BCL2L14, CDC25B, MAP3K5/ASK1 and ZNF622. Acts as an activator of apoptosis by phosphorylating and activating MAP3K5/ASK1. Acts as a regulator of cell cycle, notably by mediating phosphorylation of CDC25B, promoting localization of CDC25B to the centrosome and the spindle poles during mitosis. Plays a key role in cell proliferation and carcinogenesis. Required for proliferation of embryonic and postnatal multipotent neural progenitors. Phosphorylates and inhibits BCL2L14, possibly leading to affect mammary carcinogenesis by mediating inhibition of the pro-apoptotic function of BCL2L14. Also involved in the inhibition of spliceosome assembly during mitosis by phosphorylating ZNF622, thereby contributing to its redirection to the nucleus. May also play a role in primitive hematopoiesis.
MEN1	This gene encodes menin, a tumor suppressor associated with a syndrome known as multiple endocrine neoplasia type 1. Menin is a scaffold protein that functions in histone modification and epigenetic gene regulation. It is thought to regulate several pathways and processes by altering chromatin structure through the modification of histones.
MERTK	This gene is a member of the MER/AXL/TYRO3 receptor kinase family and encodes a transmembrane protein with two fibronectin type-III domains, two Ig-like C2-type (immunoglobulin-like) domains, and one tyrosine kinase domain. Mutations in this gene have been associated with disruption of the retinal pigment epithelium (RPE) phagocytosis pathway and onset of autosomal recessive retinitis pigmentosa (RP).
MET	This gene encodes a member of the receptor tyrosine kinase family of proteins and the product of the proto-oncogene MET. The encoded preproprotein is proteolytically processed to generate alpha and beta subunits that are linked via disulfide bonds to form the mature receptor. Further processing of the beta subunit results in the formation of the M10 peptide, which has been shown to reduce lung fibrosis. Binding of its ligand, hepatocyte growth factor, induces dimerization and activation of the receptor, which plays a role in cellular survival, embryogenesis, and cellular migration and invasion. Mutations in this gene are associated with papillary renal cell carcinoma, hepatocellular carcinoma, and various head and neck cancers. Amplification and overexpression of this gene are also associated with multiple human cancers.
METAP1	Cotranslationally removes the N-terminal methionine from nascent proteins. The N-terminal methionine is often cleaved when the second residue in the primary sequence is small and uncharged (Met-Ala-, Cys, Gly, Pro, Ser, Thr, or Val). Required for normal progression through the cell cycle.
METAP2	The protein encoded by this gene is a member of the methionyl aminopeptidase family. The encoded protein functions both by protecting the alpha subunit of eukaryotic initiation factor 2 from inhibitory phosphorylation and by removing the amino-terminal methionine residue from nascent proteins. Increased expression of this gene is associated with various forms of cancer, and the anti-cancer drugs fumagillin and ovalicin inhibit the protein by irreversibly binding to its active site. Inhibitors of this gene have also been shown to be effective for the treatment of obesity. A pseudogene of this gene is located on chromosome 2. Several transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been found for this gene.
METTL21A	Protein-lysine methyltransferase that selectively trimethylates residues in heat shock protein 70 (HSP70) family members. Contributes to the in vivo trimethylation of Lys residues in HSPA1 and HSPA8. In vitro methylates 'Lys-561' in HSPA1, 'Lys-564' in HSPA2, 'Lys-585' in HSPA5, 'Lys-563' in HSPA6 and 'Lys-561' in HSPA8.
MFGE8	This gene encodes a preproprotein that is proteolytically processed to form multiple protein products. The major encoded protein product, lactadherin, is a membrane glycoprotein that promotes phagocytosis of apoptotic cells. This protein has also been implicated in wound healing, autoimmune disease, and cancer. Lactadherin can be further processed to form a smaller cleavage product, medin, which comprises the major protein component of aortic medial amyloid (AMA). Alternative splicing results in multiple transcript variants.
MGAM	This gene encodes maltase-glucoamylase, which is a brush border membrane enzyme that plays a role in the final steps of digestion of starch. The protein has two catalytic sites identical to those of sucrase-isomaltase, but the proteins are only 59% homologous. Both are members of glycosyl hydrolase family 31, which has a variety of substrate specificities.
MGAT1	There are believed to be over 100 different glycosyltransferases involved in the synthesis of protein-bound and lipid-bound oligosaccharides. UDP-N-acetylglucosamine:alpha-3-D-mannoside beta-1,2-N-acetylglucosaminyltransferase I is a medial-Golgi enzyme essential for the synthesis of hybrid and complex N-glycans. The protein, encoded by a single exon, shows typical features of a type II transmembrane protein. The protein is believed to be essential for normal embryogenesis. Several variants encoding the same protein have been found for this gene.
MGAT2	The product of this gene is a Golgi enzyme catalyzing an essential step in the conversion of oligomannose to complex N-glycans. The enzyme has the typical glycosyltransferase domains: a short N-terminal cytoplasmic domain, a hydrophobic non-cleavable signal-anchor domain, and a C-terminal catalytic domain. Mutations in this gene may lead to carbohydrate-deficient glycoprotein syndrome, type II. The coding region of this gene is intronless. Transcript variants with a spliced 5' UTR may exist, but their biological validity has not been determined.
MGAT3	There are believed to be over 100 different glycosyltransferases involved in the synthesis of protein-bound and lipid-bound oligosaccharides. The enzyme encoded by this gene transfers a GlcNAc residue to the beta-linked mannose of the trimannosyl core of N-linked oligosaccharides and produces a bisecting GlcNAc. Multiple alternatively spliced variants, encoding the same protein, have been identified.
MGAT5	The protein encoded by this gene belongs to the glycosyltransferase family. It catalyzes the addition of beta-1,6-N-acetylglucosamine to the alpha-linked mannose of biantennary N-linked oligosaccharides present on the newly synthesized glycoproteins. It is one of the most important enzymes involved in the regulation of the biosynthesis of glycoprotein oligosaccharides. Alterations of the oligosaccharides on cell surface glycoproteins cause significant changes in the adhesive or migratory behavior of a cell. Increase in the activity of this enzyme has been correlated with the progression of invasive malignancies.
MGLL	This gene encodes a serine hydrolase of the AB hydrolase superfamily that catalyzes the conversion of monoacylglycerides to free fatty acids and glycerol. The encoded protein plays a critical role in several physiological processes including pain and nociperception through hydrolysis of the endocannabinoid 2-arachidonoylglycerol. Expression of this gene may play a role in cancer tumorigenesis and metastasis. Alternatively spliced transcript variants encoding multiple isoforms have been observed for this gene.
MGMT	Alkylating agents are potent carcinogens that can result in cell death, mutation and cancer. The protein encoded by this gene is a DNA repair protein that is involved in cellular defense against mutagenesis and toxicity from alkylating agents. The protein catalyzes transfer of methyl groups from O(6)-alkylguanine and other methylated moieties of the DNA to its own molecule, which repairs the toxic lesions. Methylation of the genes promoter has been associated with several cancer types, including colorectal cancer, lung cancer, lymphoma and glioblastoma.
MGST1	The MAPEG (Membrane Associated Proteins in Eicosanoid and Glutathione metabolism) family consists of six human proteins, two of which are involved in the production of leukotrienes and prostaglandin E, important mediators of inflammation. Other family members, demonstrating glutathione S-transferase and peroxidase activities, are involved in cellular defense against toxic, carcinogenic, and pharmacologically active electrophilic compounds. This gene encodes a protein that catalyzes the conjugation of glutathione to electrophiles and the reduction of lipid hydroperoxides. This protein is localized to the endoplasmic reticulum and outer mitochondrial membrane where it is thought to protect these membranes from oxidative stress. Several transcript variants, some non-protein coding and some protein coding, have been found for this gene.
MGST2	The MAPEG (Membrane Associated Proteins in Eicosanoid and Glutathione metabolism) family consists of six human proteins, several of which are involved in the production of leukotrienes and prostaglandin E, important mediators of inflammation. This gene encodes a protein which catalyzes the conjugation of leukotriene A4 and reduced glutathione to produce leukotriene C4. Alternatively spliced transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been identified in this gene.
MGST3	This gene encodes a member of the MAPEG (Membrane Associated Proteins in Eicosanoid and Glutathione metabolism) protein family. Members of this family are involved in the production of leukotrienes and prostaglandin E, important mediators of inflammation. This gene encodes an enzyme which catalyzes the conjugation of leukotriene A4 and reduced glutathione to produce leukotriene C4. This enzyme also demonstrates glutathione-dependent peroxidase activity towards lipid hydroperoxides.
MIF	This gene encodes a lymphokine involved in cell-mediated immunity, immunoregulation, and inflammation. It plays a role in the regulation of macrophage function in host defense through the suppression of anti-inflammatory effects of glucocorticoids. This lymphokine and the JAB1 protein form a complex in the cytosol near the peripheral plasma membrane, which may indicate an additional role in integrin signaling pathways.
MINK1	This gene encodes a serine/threonine kinase belonging to the germinal center kinase (GCK) family. The protein is structurally similar to the kinases that are related to NIK and may belong to a distinct subfamily of NIK-related kinases within the GCK family. Studies of the mouse homolog indicate an up-regulation of expression in the course of postnatal mouse cerebral development and activation of the cJun N-terminal kinase (JNK) and the p38 pathways.
MITF	The protein encoded by this gene is a transcription factor that contains both basic helix-loop-helix and leucine zipper structural features. The encoded protein regulates melanocyte development and is responsible for pigment cell-specific transcription of the melanogenesis enzyme genes. Heterozygous mutations in the this gene cause auditory-pigmentary syndromes, such as Waardenburg syndrome type 2 and Tietz syndrome.
MKNK1	This gene encodes a Ser/Thr protein kinase that interacts with, and is activated by ERK1 and p38 mitogen-activated protein kinases, and thus may play a role in the response to environmental stress and cytokines. This kinase may also regulate transcription by phosphorylating eIF4E via interaction with the C-terminal region of eIF4G. Alternatively spliced transcript variants have been noted for this gene.
MKNK2	This gene encodes a member of the calcium/calmodulin-dependent protein kinases (CAMK) Ser/Thr protein kinase family, which belongs to the protein kinase superfamily. This protein contains conserved DLG (asp-leu-gly) and ENIL (glu-asn-ile-leu) motifs, and an N-terminal polybasic region which binds importin A and the translation factor scaffold protein eukaryotic initiation factor 4G (eIF4G). This protein is one of the downstream kinases activated by mitogen-activated protein (MAP) kinases. It phosphorylates the eukaryotic initiation factor 4E (eIF4E), thus playing important roles in the initiation of mRNA translation, oncogenic transformation and malignant cell proliferation. In addition to eIF4E, this protein also interacts with von Hippel-Lindau tumor suppressor (VHL), ring-box 1 (Rbx1) and Cullin2 (Cul2), which are all components of the CBC(VHL) ubiquitin ligase E3 complex. Multiple alternatively spliced transcript variants have been found, but the full-length nature and biological activity of only two variants are determined. These two variants encode distinct isoforms which differ in activity and regulation, and in subcellular localization.
MLKL	This gene belongs to the protein kinase superfamily. The encoded protein contains a protein kinase-like domain; however, is thought to be inactive because it lacks several residues required for activity. This protein plays a critical role in tumor necrosis factor (TNF)-induced necroptosis, a programmed cell death process, via interaction with receptor-interacting protein 3 (RIP3), which is a key signaling molecule in necroptosis pathway. Inhibitor studies and knockdown of this gene inhibited TNF-induced necrosis. High levels of this protein and RIP3 are associated with inflammatory bowel disease in children. Alternatively spliced transcript variants have been described for this gene.
MLNR	Motilin is a 22 amino acid peptide hormone expressed throughout the gastrointestinal (GI) tract. The protein encoded by this gene is a motilin receptor which is a member of the G-protein coupled receptor 1 family. This member is a multi-pass transmembrane protein, and is an important therapeutic target for the treatment of hypomotility disorders.
MLX	The product of this gene belongs to the family of basic helix-loop-helix leucine zipper (bHLH-Zip) transcription factors. These factors form heterodimers with Mad proteins and play a role in proliferation, determination and differentiation. This gene product may act to diversify Mad family function by its restricted association with a subset of the Mad family of transcriptional repressors, namely, Mad1 and Mad4. Alternatively spliced transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been identified for this gene.
MLYCD	The product of this gene catalyzes the breakdown of malonyl-CoA to acetyl-CoA and carbon dioxide. Malonyl-CoA is an intermediate in fatty acid biosynthesis, and also inhibits the transport of fatty acyl CoAs into mitochondria. Consequently, the encoded protein acts to increase the rate of fatty acid oxidation. It is found in mitochondria, peroxisomes, and the cytoplasm. Mutations in this gene result in malonyl-CoA decarboyxlase deficiency.
MME	The protein encoded by this gene is a type II transmembrane glycoprotein and a common acute lymphocytic leukemia antigen that is an important cell surface marker in the diagnosis of human acute lymphocytic leukemia (ALL). The encoded protein is present on leukemic cells of pre-B phenotype, which represent 85% of cases of ALL. This protein is not restricted to leukemic cells, however, and is found on a variety of normal tissues. The protein is a neutral endopeptidase that cleaves peptides at the amino side of hydrophobic residues and inactivates several peptide hormones including glucagon, enkephalins, substance P, neurotensin, oxytocin, and bradykinin.
MMEL1	The protein encoded by this gene is a member of the neutral endopeptidase (NEP) or membrane metallo-endopeptidase (MME) family. Family members play important roles in pain perception, arterial pressure regulation, phosphate metabolism and homeostasis. This protein is a type II transmembrane protein and is thought to be expressed as a secreted protein. This gene is expressed mainly in testis with weak expression in the brain, kidney, and heart.
MMP1	This gene encodes a member of the peptidase M10 family of matrix metalloproteinases (MMPs). Proteins in this family are involved in the breakdown of extracellular matrix in normal physiological processes, such as embryonic development, reproduction, and tissue remodeling, as well as in disease processes, such as arthritis and metastasis. The encoded preproprotein is proteolytically processed to generate the mature protease. This secreted protease breaks down the interstitial collagens, including types I, II, and III. The gene is part of a cluster of MMP genes on chromosome 11. Mutations in this gene are associated with chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD). Alternative splicing results in multiple transcript variants, at least one of which encodes an isoform that is proteolytically processed.
MMP10	This gene encodes a member of the peptidase M10 family of matrix metalloproteinases (MMPs). Proteins in this family are involved in the breakdown of extracellular matrix in normal physiological processes, such as embryonic development, reproduction, and tissue remodeling, as well as in disease processes, such as arthritis and metastasis. The encoded preproprotein is proteolytically processed to generate the mature protease. This secreted protease breaks down fibronectin, laminin, elastin, proteoglycan core protein, gelatins, and several types of collagen. The gene is part of a cluster of MMP genes on chromosome 11.
MMP11	Proteins of the matrix metalloproteinase (MMP) family are involved in the breakdown of extracellular matrix in normal physiological processes, such as embryonic development, reproduction, and tissue remodeling, as well as in disease processes, such as arthritis and metastasis. Most MMP's are secreted as inactive proproteins which are activated when cleaved by extracellular proteinases. However, the enzyme encoded by this gene is activated intracellularly by furin within the constitutive secretory pathway. Also in contrast to other MMP's, this enzyme cleaves alpha 1-proteinase inhibitor but weakly degrades structural proteins of the extracellular matrix.
MMP13	This gene encodes a member of the peptidase M10 family of matrix metalloproteinases (MMPs). Proteins in this family are involved in the breakdown of extracellular matrix in normal physiological processes, such as embryonic development, reproduction, and tissue remodeling, as well as in disease processes, such as arthritis and metastasis. The encoded preproprotein is proteolytically processed to generate the mature protease. This protease cleaves type II collagen more efficiently than types I and III. It may be involved in articular cartilage turnover and cartilage pathophysiology associated with osteoarthritis. Mutations in this gene are associated with metaphyseal anadysplasia. This gene is part of a cluster of MMP genes on chromosome 11.
MMP14	Proteins of the matrix metalloproteinase (MMP) family are involved in the breakdown of extracellular matrix in normal physiological processes, such as embryonic development, reproduction, and tissue remodeling, as well as in disease processes, such as arthritis and metastasis. Most MMP's are secreted as inactive proproteins which are activated when cleaved by extracellular proteinases. However, the protein encoded by this gene is a member of the membrane-type MMP (MT-MMP) subfamily; each member of this subfamily contains a potential transmembrane domain suggesting that these proteins are expressed at the cell surface rather than secreted. This protein activates MMP2 protein, and this activity may be involved in tumor invasion.
MMP15	This gene encodes a member of the peptidase M10 family and membrane-type subfamily of matrix metalloproteinases (MMPs). Proteins in this family are involved in the breakdown of extracellular matrix in normal physiological processes, such as embryonic development, reproduction, and tissue remodeling, as well as in disease processes, such as arthritis and metastasis. Members of this subfamily contain a transmembrane domain suggesting that these proteins are expressed at the cell surface rather than secreted. The encoded preproprotein is proteolytically processed to generate the mature protease. This protein may play a role in cancer progression.
MMP16	Proteins of the matrix metalloproteinase (MMP) family are involved in the breakdown of extracellular matrix in normal physiological processes, such as embryonic development, reproduction, and tissue remodeling, as well as in disease processes, such as arthritis and metastasis. Most MMP's are secreted as inactive proproteins which are activated when cleaved by extracellular proteinases. The encoded protein activates MMP2 by cleavage. This gene was once referred to as MT-MMP2, but was renamed as MT-MMP3 or MMP16.
MMP17	This gene encodes a member of the peptidase M10 family and membrane-type subfamily of matrix metalloproteinases (MMPs). Proteins in this family are involved in the breakdown of extracellular matrix in normal physiological processes, such as embryonic development, reproduction, and tissue remodeling, as well as in disease processes, such as arthritis and metastasis. Members of this subfamily contain a transmembrane domain suggesting that these proteins are expressed at the cell surface rather than secreted. The encoded preproprotein is proteolytically processed to generate the mature protease. This protein is unique among the membrane-type matrix metalloproteinases in that it is anchored to the cell membrane via a glycosylphosphatidylinositol (GPI) anchor. Elevated expression of the encoded protein has been observed in osteoarthritis and multiple human cancers.
MMP19	This gene encodes a member of a family of proteins that are involved in the breakdown of extracellular matrix in normal physiological processes, such as embryonic development, reproduction, and tissue remodeling, as well as in disease processes, such as arthritis and metastasis. The encoded protein is secreted as an inactive proprotein, which is activated upon cleavage by extracellular proteases. Alternative splicing results in multiple transcript variants for this gene.
MMP2	This gene is a member of the matrix metalloproteinase (MMP) gene family, that are zinc-dependent enzymes capable of cleaving components of the extracellular matrix and molecules involved in signal transduction. The protein encoded by this gene is a gelatinase A, type IV collagenase, that contains three fibronectin type II repeats in its catalytic site that allow binding of denatured type IV and V collagen and elastin. Unlike most MMP family members, activation of this protein can occur on the cell membrane. This enzyme can be activated extracellularly by proteases, or, intracellulary by its S-glutathiolation with no requirement for proteolytical removal of the pro-domain. This protein is thought to be involved in multiple pathways including roles in the nervous system, endometrial menstrual breakdown, regulation of vascularization, and metastasis. Mutations in this gene have been associated with Winchester syndrome and Nodulosis-Arthropathy-Osteolysis (NAO) syndrome. Alternative splicing results in multiple transcript variants encoding different isoforms.
MMP20	Proteins of the matrix metalloproteinase (MMP) family are involved in the breakdown of extracellular matrix in normal physiological processes, such as embryonic development, reproduction, and tissue remodeling, as well as in disease processes, such as arthritis and metastasis. Most MMP's are secreted as inactive proproteins which are activated when cleaved by extracellular proteinases. The protein encoded by this gene degrades amelogenin, the major protein component of dental enamel matrix, and thus thought to play a role in tooth enamel formation. A mutation in this gene, which alters the normal splice pattern and results in premature termination of the encoded protein, has been associated with amelogenesis imperfecta. This gene is part of a cluster of MMP genes located on chromosome 11q22.3.
MMP24	This gene encodes a member of the peptidase M10 family of matrix metalloproteinases (MMPs). Proteins in this family are involved in the breakdown of extracellular matrix in normal physiological processes, such as embryonic development, reproduction, and tissue remodeling, as well as in disease processes, such as arthritis and metastasis. The encoded preproprotein is proteolytically processed to generate the mature protease. Unlike most MMPs, which are secreted, this protease is a member of the membrane-type MMP (MT-MMP) subfamily, contains a transmembrane domain and is expressed at the cell surface. Substrates of this protease include the proteins cadherin 2 and matrix metallopeptidase 2 (also known as 72 kDa type IV collagenase).
MMP25	Proteins of the matrix metalloproteinase (MMP) family are involved in the breakdown of extracellular matrix in normal physiological processes, such as embryonic development, reproduction, and tissue remodeling, as well as in disease processes, such as arthritis and metastasis. Most MMPs are secreted as inactive proproteins which are activated when cleaved by extracellular proteinases. However, the protein encoded by this gene is a member of the membrane-type MMP (MT-MMP) subfamily, attached to the plasma membrane via a glycosylphosphatidyl inositol anchor. In response to bacterial infection or inflammation, the encoded protein is thought to inactivate alpha-1 proteinase inhibitor, a major tissue protectant against proteolytic enzymes released by activated neutrophils, facilitating the transendothelial migration of neutrophils to inflammatory sites. The encoded protein may also play a role in tumor invasion and metastasis through activation of MMP2. The gene has previously been referred to as MMP20 but has been renamed MMP25.
MMP26	Proteins of the matrix metalloproteinase (MMP) family are involved in the breakdown of extracellular matrix in normal physiological processes, such as embryonic development, reproduction, and tissue remodeling, as well as in disease processes, such as arthritis and metastasis. The encoded preproprotein is proteolytically processed to generate the mature enzyme. This enzyme may degrade collagen type IV, fibronectin, fibrinogen, and beta-casein, and activate matrix metalloproteinase-9 by cleavage. The protein differs from most MMP family members in that it lacks a conserved C-terminal protein domain. The encoded protein may promote cell invasion in multiple human cancers.
MMP3	Proteins of the matrix metalloproteinase (MMP) family are involved in the breakdown of extracellular matrix in normal physiological processes, such as embryonic development, reproduction, and tissue remodeling, as well as in disease processes, such as arthritis and metastasis. Most MMP's are secreted as inactive proproteins which are activated when cleaved by extracellular proteinases. This gene encodes an enzyme which degrades fibronectin, laminin, collagens III, IV, IX, and X, and cartilage proteoglycans. The enzyme is thought to be involved in wound repair, progression of atherosclerosis, and tumor initiation. The gene is part of a cluster of MMP genes which localize to chromosome 11q22.3.
MMP7	This gene encodes a member of the peptidase M10 family of matrix metalloproteinases (MMPs). Proteins in this family are involved in the breakdown of extracellular matrix in normal physiological processes, such as embryonic development, reproduction, and tissue remodeling, as well as in disease processes, such as arthritis and metastasis. The encoded preproprotein is proteolytically processed to generate the mature protease. This secreted protease breaks down proteoglycans, fibronectin, elastin and casein and differs from most MMP family members in that it lacks a conserved C-terminal hemopexin domain. The enzyme is involved in wound healing, and studies in mice suggest that it regulates the activity of defensins in intestinal mucosa. The gene is part of a cluster of MMP genes on chromosome 11. This gene exhibits elevated expression levels in multiple human cancers.
MMP8	This gene encodes a member of the matrix metalloproteinase (MMP) family of proteins. These proteins are involved in the breakdown of extracellular matrix in embryonic development, reproduction, and tissue remodeling, as well as in disease processes, such as arthritis and metastasis. Proteolysis at different sites on this protein results in multiple active forms of the enzyme with distinct N-termini. This protein functions in the degradation of type I, II and III collagens. The gene is part of a cluster of MMP genes which localize to chromosome 11q22.3. Alternative splicing results in multiple transcript variants.
MMP9	Proteins of the matrix metalloproteinase (MMP) family are involved in the breakdown of extracellular matrix in normal physiological processes, such as embryonic development, reproduction, and tissue remodeling, as well as in disease processes, such as arthritis and metastasis. Most MMP's are secreted as inactive proproteins which are activated when cleaved by extracellular proteinases. The enzyme encoded by this gene degrades type IV and V collagens. Studies in rhesus monkeys suggest that the enzyme is involved in IL-8-induced mobilization of hematopoietic progenitor cells from bone marrow, and murine studies suggest a role in tumor-associated tissue remodeling.
MOGAT2	The protein encoded by this gene is an enzyme that catalyzes the synthesis of diacylglycerol from 2-monoacylglycerol and fatty acyl-CoA. The encoded protein is important in the uptake of dietary fat by the small intestine. This protein forms a complex with diacylglycerol O-acyltransferase 2 in the endoplasmic reticulum, and this complex catalyzes the synthesis of triacylglycerol.
MOGS	This gene encodes the first enzyme in the N-linked oligosaccharide processing pathway. The enzyme cleaves the distal alpha-1,2-linked glucose residue from the Glc(3)-Man(9)-GlcNAc(2) oligosaccharide precursor. This protein is located in the lumen of the endoplasmic reticulum. Defects in this gene are a cause of type IIb congenital disorder of glycosylation (CDGIIb). Two transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been found for this gene.
MOS	MOS is a serine/threonine kinase that activates the MAP kinase cascade through direct phosphorylation of the MAP kinase activator MEK (MAP2K1; MIM 176872) (Prasad et al., 2008
MPG	Hydrolysis of the deoxyribose N-glycosidic bond to excise 3-methyladenine, and 7-methylguanine from the damaged DNA polymer formed by alkylation lesions.
MPHOSPH8	Heterochromatin component that specifically recognizes and binds methylated 'Lys-9' of histone H3 (H3K9me) and promotes recruitment of proteins that mediate epigenetic repression .
MPI	Phosphomannose isomerase catalyzes the interconversion of fructose-6-phosphate and mannose-6-phosphate and plays a critical role in maintaining the supply of D-mannose derivatives, which are required for most glycosylation reactions. Mutations in the MPI gene were found in patients with carbohydrate-deficient glycoprotein syndrome, type Ib. Alternative splicing results in multiple transcript variants.
MPL	In 1990 an oncogene, v-mpl, was identified from the murine myeloproliferative leukemia virus that was capable of immortalizing bone marrow hematopoietic cells from different lineages. In 1992 the human homologue, named, c-mpl, was cloned. Sequence data revealed that c-mpl encoded a protein that was homologous with members of the hematopoietic receptor superfamily. Presence of anti-sense oligodeoxynucleotides of c-mpl inhibited megakaryocyte colony formation. The ligand for c-mpl, thrombopoietin, was cloned in 1994. Thrombopoietin was shown to be the major regulator of megakaryocytopoiesis and platelet formation. The protein encoded by the c-mpl gene, CD110, is a 635 amino acid transmembrane domain, with two extracellular cytokine receptor domains and two intracellular cytokine receptor box motifs . TPO-R deficient mice were severely thrombocytopenic, emphasizing the important role of CD110 and thrombopoietin in megakaryocyte and platelet formation. Upon binding of thrombopoietin CD110 is dimerized and the JAK family of non-receptor tyrosine kinases, as well as the STAT family, the MAPK family, the adaptor protein Shc and the receptors themselves become tyrosine phosphorylated.
MPO	Myeloperoxidase (MPO) is a heme protein synthesized during myeloid differentiation that constitutes the major component of neutrophil azurophilic granules. Produced as a single chain precursor, myeloperoxidase is subsequently cleaved into a light and heavy chain. The mature myeloperoxidase is a tetramer composed of 2 light chains and 2 heavy chains. This enzyme produces hypohalous acids central to the microbicidal activity of neutrophils.
MRC1	The recognition of complex carbohydrate structures on glycoproteins is an important part of several biological processes, including cell-cell recognition, serum glycoprotein turnover, and neutralization of pathogens. The protein encoded by this gene is a type I membrane receptor that mediates the endocytosis of glycoproteins by macrophages. The protein has been shown to bind high-mannose structures on the surface of potentially pathogenic viruses, bacteria, and fungi so that they can be neutralized by phagocytic engulfment.
MRGPRX1	Orphan receptor. Probably involved in the function of nociceptive neurons. May regulate nociceptor function and/or development, including the sensation or modulation of pain. Potently activated by enkephalins including BAM22 (bovine adrenal medulla peptide 22) and BAM (8-22)q proteins are involved in the calcium-signaling pathway. Activated by the antimalarial drug, chloroquine. May mediate chloroquine-induced itch, in a histamine-independent manner.
MRGPRX2	Mast cell-specific receptor for basic secretagogues, i.e. cationic amphiphilic drugs, as well as endo- or exogenous peptides, consisting of a basic head group and a hydrophobic core . Acts as a receptor for a number of other ligands, including peptides and alkaloids, such as cortistatin-14, proadrenomedullin N-terminal peptides PAMP-12 and, at lower extent, PAMP-20, antibacterial protein LL-37, PMX-53 peptide, beta-defensins, and complanadine A.
MS4A1	This gene encodes a member of the membrane-spanning 4A gene family. Members of this nascent protein family are characterized by common structural features and similar intron/exon splice boundaries and display unique expression patterns among hematopoietic cells and nonlymphoid tissues. This gene encodes a B-lymphocyte surface molecule which plays a role in the development and differentiation of B-cells into plasma cells. This family member is localized to 11q12, among a cluster of family members. Alternative splicing of this gene results in two transcript variants which encode the same protein.
MSLN	This gene encodes a preproprotein that is proteolytically processed to generate two protein products, megakaryocyte potentiating factor and mesothelin. Megakaryocyte potentiating factor functions as a cytokine that can stimulate colony formation of bone marrow megakaryocytes. Mesothelin is a glycosylphosphatidylinositol-anchored cell-surface protein that may function as a cell adhesion protein. This protein is overexpressed in epithelial mesotheliomas, ovarian cancers and in specific squamous cell carcinomas. Alternative splicing results in multiple transcript variants, at least one of which encodes an isoform that is proteolytically processed.
MSR1	This gene encodes the class A macrophage scavenger receptors, which include three different types (1, 2, 3) generated by alternative splicing of this gene. These receptors or isoforms are macrophage-specific trimeric integral membrane glycoproteins and have been implicated in many macrophage-associated physiological and pathological processes including atherosclerosis, Alzheimer's disease, and host defense. The isoforms type 1 and type 2 are functional receptors and are able to mediate the endocytosis of modified low density lipoproteins (LDLs). The isoform type 3 does not internalize modified LDL (acetyl-LDL) despite having the domain shown to mediate this function in the types 1 and 2 isoforms. It has an altered intracellular processing and is trapped within the endoplasmic reticulum, making it unable to perform endocytosis. The isoform type 3 can inhibit the function of isoforms type 1 and type 2 when co-expressed, indicating a dominant negative effect and suggesting a mechanism for regulation of scavenger receptor activity in macrophages.
MSRB2	Methionine-sulfoxide reductase that specifically reduces methionine (R)-sulfoxide back to methionine. While in many cases, methionine oxidation is the result of random oxidation following oxidative stress, methionine oxidation is also a post-translational modification that takes place on specific residue. Upon oxidative stress, may play a role in the preservation of mitochondrial integrity by decreasing the intracellular reactive oxygen species build-up through its scavenging role, hence contributing to cell survival and protein maintenance.
MSRB3	The protein encoded by this gene catalyzes the reduction of methionine sulfoxide to methionine. This enzyme acts as a monomer and requires zinc as a cofactor. Several transcript variants encoding two different isoforms have been found for this gene. One of the isoforms localizes to mitochondria while the other localizes to endoplasmic reticula.
MST1R	This gene encodes a cell surface receptor for macrophage-stimulating protein (MSP) with tyrosine kinase activity. The mature form of this protein is a heterodimer of disulfide-linked alpha and beta subunits, generated by proteolytic cleavage of a single-chain precursor. The beta subunit undergoes tyrosine phosphorylation upon stimulation by MSP. This protein is expressed on the ciliated epithelia of the mucociliary transport apparatus of the lung, and together with MSP, thought to be involved in host defense. Alternative splicing generates multiple transcript variants encoding different isoforms that may undergo similar proteolytic processing.
MSTN	This gene encodes a secreted ligand of the TGF-beta (transforming growth factor-beta) superfamily of proteins. Ligands of this family bind various TGF-beta receptors leading to recruitment and activation of SMAD family transcription factors that regulate gene expression. The encoded preproprotein is proteolytically processed to generate each subunit of the disulfide-linked homodimer. This protein negatively regulates skeletal muscle cell proliferation and differentiation. Mutations in this gene are associated with increased skeletal muscle mass in humans and other mammals.
MTAP	This gene encodes an enzyme that plays a major role in polyamine metabolism and is important for the salvage of both adenine and methionine. The encoded enzyme is deficient in many cancers because this gene and the tumor suppressor p16 gene are co-deleted. Multiple alternatively spliced transcript variants have been described for this gene, but their full-length natures remain unknown.
MT-CO1	Cytochrome c oxidase is the component of the respiratory chain that catalyzes the reduction of oxygen to water. Subunits 1-3 form the functional core of the enzyme complex. CO I is the catalytic subunit of the enzyme. Electrons originating in cytochrome c are transferred via the copper A center of subunit 2 and heme A of subunit 1 to the bimetallic center formed by heme A3 and copper B.
MT-CO2	Cytochrome c oxidase is the component of the respiratory chain that catalyzes the reduction of oxygen to water. Subunits 1-3 form the functional core of the enzyme complex. Subunit 2 transfers the electrons from cytochrome c via its binuclear copper A center to the bimetallic center of the catalytic subunit 1.
MTHFD1	This gene encodes a protein that possesses three distinct enzymatic activities, 5,10-methylenetetrahydrofolate dehydrogenase, 5,10-methenyltetrahydrofolate cyclohydrolase and 10-formyltetrahydrofolate synthetase. Each of these activities catalyzes one of three sequential reactions in the interconversion of 1-carbon derivatives of tetrahydrofolate, which are substrates for methionine, thymidylate, and de novo purine syntheses. The trifunctional enzymatic activities are conferred by two major domains, an aminoterminal portion containing the dehydrogenase and cyclohydrolase activities and a larger synthetase domain.
MTHFD2	This gene encodes a nuclear-encoded mitochondrial bifunctional enzyme with methylenetetrahydrofolate dehydrogenase and methenyltetrahydrofolate cyclohydrolase activities. The enzyme functions as a homodimer and is unique in its absolute requirement for magnesium and inorganic phosphate. Formation of the enzyme-magnesium complex allows binding of NAD. Alternative splicing results in two different transcripts, one protein-coding and the other not protein-coding. This gene has a pseudogene on chromosome 7.
MT-ND4	Core subunit of the mitochondrial membrane respiratory chain NADH dehydrogenase (Complex I) that is believed to belong to the minimal assembly required for catalysis. Complex I functions in the transfer of electrons from NADH to the respiratory chain. The immediate electron acceptor for the enzyme is believed to be ubiquinone (By similarity).
MTNR1A	This gene encodes one of two high affinity forms of a receptor for melatonin, the primary hormone secreted by the pineal gland. This receptor is a G-protein coupled, 7-transmembrane receptor that is responsible for melatonin effects on mammalian circadian rhythm and reproductive alterations affected by day length. The receptor is an integral membrane protein that is readily detectable and localized to two specific regions of the brain. The hypothalamic suprachiasmatic nucleus appears to be involved in circadian rhythm while the hypophysial pars tuberalis may be responsible for the reproductive effects of melatonin.
MTNR1B	This gene encodes one of two high affinity forms of a receptor for melatonin, the primary hormone secreted by the pineal gland. This gene product is an integral membrane protein that is a G-protein coupled, 7-transmembrane receptor. It is found primarily in the retina and brain although this detection requires RT-PCR. It is thought to participate in light-dependent functions in the retina and may be involved in the neurobiological effects of melatonin.
MTOR	The protein encoded by this gene belongs to a family of phosphatidylinositol kinase-related kinases. These kinases mediate cellular responses to stresses such as DNA damage and nutrient deprivation. This protein acts as the target for the cell-cycle arrest and immunosuppressive effects of the FKBP12-rapamycin complex. The ANGPTL7 gene is located in an intron of this gene.
MTR	This gene encodes the 5-methyltetrahydrofolate-homocysteine methyltransferase. This enzyme, also known as cobalamin-dependent methionine synthase, catalyzes the final step in methionine biosynthesis. Mutations in MTR have been identified as the underlying cause of methylcobalamin deficiency complementation group G. Alternatively spliced transcript variants encoding distinct isoforms have been found for this gene.
MTTP	MTP encodes the large subunit of the heterodimeric microsomal triglyceride transfer protein. Protein disulfide isomerase (PDI) completes the heterodimeric microsomal triglyceride transfer protein, which has been shown to play a central role in lipoprotein assembly. Mutations in MTP can cause abetalipoproteinemia.
MUC1	This gene encodes a membrane-bound protein that is a member of the mucin family. Mucins are O-glycosylated proteins that play an essential role in forming protective mucous barriers on epithelial surfaces. These proteins also play a role in intracellular signaling. This protein is expressed on the apical surface of epithelial cells that line the mucosal surfaces of many different tissues including lung, breast stomach and pancreas. This protein is proteolytically cleaved into alpha and beta subunits that form a heterodimeric complex. The N-terminal alpha subunit functions in cell-adhesion and the C-terminal beta subunit is involved in cell signaling. Overexpression, aberrant intracellular localization, and changes in glycosylation of this protein have been associated with carcinomas. This gene is known to contain a highly polymorphic variable number tandem repeats (VNTR) domain. Alternate splicing results in multiple transcript variants.
MUC16	This gene encodes a protein that is a member of the mucin family. Mucins are high molecular weight, O-glycosylated proteins that play an important role in forming a protective mucous barrier, and are found on the apical surfaces of the epithelia. The encoded protein is a membrane-tethered mucin that contains an extracellular domain at its amino terminus, a large tandem repeat domain, and a transmembrane domain with a short cytoplasmic domain. The amino terminus is highly glycosylated, while the repeat region contains 156 amino acid repeats unit that are rich in serines, threonines, and prolines. Interspersed within the repeats are Sea urchin sperm protein Enterokinase and Agrin (SEA) modules, leucine-rich repeats and ankyrin (ANK) repeats. These regions together form the ectodomain, and there is a potential cleavage site found near an SEA module close to the transmembrane domain. This protein is thought to play a role in forming a barrier, protecting epithelial cells from pathogens. Products of this gene have been used as a marker for different cancers, with higher expression levels associated with poorer outcomes.
MUC5AC	Gel-forming glycoprotein of gastric and respiratoy tract epithelia that protects the mucosa from infection and chemical damage by binding to inhaled microrganisms and particles that are subsequently removed by the mucocilary system.
MUSK	This gene encodes a muscle-specific tyrosine kinase receptor. The encoded protein may play a role in clustering of the acetylcholine receptor in the postsynaptic neuromuscular junction. Mutations in this gene have been associated with congenital myasthenic syndrome. Alternatively spliced transcript variants have been described.
MVD	The enzyme mevalonate pyrophosphate decarboxylase catalyzes the conversion of mevalonate pyrophosphate into isopentenyl pyrophosphate in one of the early steps in cholesterol biosynthesis. It decarboxylates and dehydrates its substrate while hydrolyzing ATP.
MYC	This gene is a proto-oncogene and encodes a nuclear phosphoprotein that plays a role in cell cycle progression, apoptosis and cellular transformation. The encoded protein forms a heterodimer with the related transcription factor MAX. This complex binds to the E box DNA consensus sequence and regulates the transcription of specific target genes. Amplification of this gene is frequently observed in numerous human cancers. Translocations involving this gene are associated with Burkitt lymphoma and multiple myeloma in human patients. There is evidence to show that translation initiates both from an upstream, in-frame non-AUG (CUG) and a downstream AUG start site, resulting in the production of two isoforms with distinct N-termini.
MYD88	This gene encodes a cytosolic adapter protein that plays a central role in the innate and adaptive immune response. This protein functions as an essential signal transducer in the interleukin-1 and Toll-like receptor signaling pathways. These pathways regulate that activation of numerous proinflammatory genes. The encoded protein consists of an N-terminal death domain and a C-terminal Toll-interleukin1 receptor domain. Patients with defects in this gene have an increased susceptibility to pyogenic bacterial infections. Alternate splicing results in multiple transcript variants.
MYH9	This gene encodes a conventional non-muscle myosin; this protein should not be confused with the unconventional myosin-9a or 9b (MYO9A or MYO9B). The encoded protein is a myosin IIA heavy chain that contains an IQ domain and a myosin head-like domain which is involved in several important functions, including cytokinesis, cell motility and maintenance of cell shape. Defects in this gene have been associated with non-syndromic sensorineural deafness autosomal dominant type 17, Epstein syndrome, Alport syndrome with macrothrombocytopenia, Sebastian syndrome, Fechtner syndrome and macrothrombocytopenia with progressive sensorineural deafness.
MYLK	This gene, a muscle member of the immunoglobulin gene superfamily, encodes myosin light chain kinase which is a calcium/calmodulin dependent enzyme. This kinase phosphorylates myosin regulatory light chains to facilitate myosin interaction with actin filaments to produce contractile activity. This gene encodes both smooth muscle and nonmuscle isoforms. In addition, using a separate promoter in an intron in the 3' region, it encodes telokin, a small protein identical in sequence to the C-terminus of myosin light chain kinase, that is independently expressed in smooth muscle and functions to stabilize unphosphorylated myosin filaments. A pseudogene is located on the p arm of chromosome 3. Four transcript variants that produce four isoforms of the calcium/calmodulin dependent enzyme have been identified as well as two transcripts that produce two isoforms of telokin. Additional variants have been identified but lack full length transcripts.
MYLK2	This gene encodes a myosin light chain kinase, a calcium/calmodulin dependent enzyme, that is exclusively expressed in adult skeletal muscle.
MYLK3	Phosphorylation of cardiac myosin heavy chains (see MYH7B, MIM 609928) and light chains (see MYL2, MIM 160781) by a kinase, such as MYLK3, potentiates the force and rate of cross-bridge recruitment in cardiac myocytes (Chan et al., 2008
MYO3A	The protein encoded by this gene belongs to the myosin superfamily. Myosins are actin-dependent motor proteins and are categorized into conventional myosins (class II) and unconventional myosins (classes I and III through XV) based on their variable C-terminal cargo-binding domains. Class III myosins, such as this one, have a kinase domain N-terminal to the conserved N-terminal motor domains and are expressed in photoreceptors. The protein encoded by this gene plays an important role in hearing in humans. Three different recessive, loss of function mutations in the encoded protein have been shown to cause nonsyndromic progressive hearing loss. Expression of this gene is highly restricted, with the strongest expression in retina and cochlea.
MYO3B	This gene encodes one of the class III myosins. Myosins are ATPases, activated by actin, that move along actin filaments in the cell. This class of myosins are characterized by an amino-terminal kinase domain and shown to be present in photoreceptors. Alternative splicing results in multiple transcript variants encoding different isoforms.
MYT1	The protein encoded by this gene is a member of a family of neural specific, zinc finger-containing DNA-binding proteins. The protein binds to the promoter regions of proteolipid proteins of the central nervous system and plays a role in the developing nervous system.
NAA16	Auxillary subunit of the N-terminal acetyltransferase A (NatA) complex which displays alpha (N-terminal) acetyltransferase activity.
NAAA	This gene encodes an N-acylethanolamine-hydrolyzing enzyme which is highly similar to acid ceramidase. Multiple transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been found for this gene.
NAALAD2	This gene is a member of the N-acetylated alpha-linked acidic dipeptidase (NAALADase) gene family. The representative member of this family is the gene encoding human prostate-specific membrane antigen (PSM), which is a marker of prostatic carcinomas and is the first to be shown to possess NAALADase activity. NAALADase cleaves N-acetyl-L-aspartate-L-glutamate (NAAG), which is a neuropeptide expressed both in the central nervous systems and in the periphery and is thought to function as a neurotransmitter. The product of this gene is a type II integral membrane protein. Transient transfection of this gene confers both NAALADase and dipetidyl peptidase IV activities to mammalian cells. This gene is highly expressed in ovary and testis as well as within discrete brain areas. Two transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been found for this gene.
NADK	NADK catalyzes the transfer of a phosphate group from ATP to NAD to generate NADP, which in its reduced form acts as an electron donor for biosynthetic reactions (Lerner et al., 2001
NAE1	The protein encoded by this gene binds to the beta-amyloid precursor protein. Beta-amyloid precursor protein is a cell surface protein with signal-transducing properties, and it is thought to play a role in the pathogenesis of Alzheimer's disease. In addition, the encoded protein can form a heterodimer with UBE1C and bind and activate NEDD8, a ubiquitin-like protein. This protein is required for cell cycle progression through the S/M checkpoint. Three transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been found for this gene.
NAGA	NAGA encodes the lysosomal enzyme alpha-N-acetylgalactosaminidase, which cleaves alpha-N-acetylgalactosaminyl moieties from glycoconjugates. Mutations in NAGA have been identified as the cause of  Schindler disease types I and II (type II also known as Kanzaki disease).
NAGPA	Hydrolases are transported to lysosomes after binding to mannose 6-phosphate receptors in the trans-Golgi network. This gene encodes the enzyme that catalyzes the second step in the formation of the mannose 6-phosphate recognition marker on lysosomal hydrolases. Commonly known as 'uncovering enzyme' or UCE, this enzyme removes N-acetyl-D-glucosamine (GlcNAc) residues from GlcNAc-alpha-P-mannose moieties and thereby produces the recognition marker. The encoded preproprotein is proteolytically processed by furin to generate the mature enzyme, a homotetramer of two disulfide-linked homodimers. Mutations in this gene are associated with developmental stuttering in human patients.
NAMPT	This gene encodes a protein that catalyzes the condensation of nicotinamide with 5-phosphoribosyl-1-pyrophosphate to yield nicotinamide mononucleotide, one step in the biosynthesis of nicotinamide adenine dinucleotide. The protein belongs to the nicotinic acid phosphoribosyltransferase (NAPRTase) family and is thought to be involved in many important biological processes, including metabolism, stress response and aging. This gene has a pseudogene on chromosome 10.
NANOG	The protein encoded by this gene is a DNA binding homeobox transcription factor involved in embryonic stem (ES) cell proliferation, renewal, and pluripotency. The encoded protein can block ES cell differentiation and can also autorepress its own expression in differentiating cells. Two transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been found for this gene.
NANP	This gene is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with NANP include Benign Essential Hypertension and Uterine Inflammatory Disease. Among its related pathways are Metabolism of proteins and superpathway of CMP-sialic acids biosynthesis. Enables N-acylneuraminate-9-phosphatase activity. Involved in N-acetylneuraminate biosynthetic process. Predicted to be located in cytosol.
NAP1L4	This gene encodes a member of the nucleosome assembly protein (NAP) family which can interact with both core and linker histones. It can shuttle between the cytoplasm and nucleus, suggesting a role as a histone chaperone. This gene is one of several located near the imprinted gene domain of 11p15.5, an important tumor-suppressor gene region. Alterations in this region have been associated with the Beckwith-Wiedemann syndrome, Wilms tumor, rhabdomyosarcoma, adrenocortical carcinoma, and lung, ovarian, and breast cancer.
NAT1	This gene is one of two arylamine N-acetyltransferase (NAT) genes in the human genome, and is orthologous to the mouse and rat Nat2 genes. The enzyme encoded by this gene catalyzes the transfer of an acetyl group from acetyl-CoA to various arylamine and hydrazine substrates. This enzyme helps metabolize drugs and other xenobiotics, and functions in folate catabolism. Multiple transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been found for this gene.
NAT2	This gene encodes an enzyme that functions to both activate and deactivate arylamine and hydrazine drugs and carcinogens. Polymorphisms in this gene are responsible for the N-acetylation polymorphism in which human populations segregate into rapid, intermediate, and slow acetylator phenotypes. Polymorphisms in this gene are also associated with higher incidences of cancer and drug toxicity. A second arylamine N-acetyltransferase gene (NAT1) is located near this gene (NAT2).
NCAM1	This gene encodes a cell adhesion protein which is a member of the immunoglobulin superfamily. The encoded protein is involved in cell-to-cell interactions as well as cell-matrix interactions during development and differentiation. The encoded protein has been shown to be involved in development of the nervous system, and for cells involved in the expansion of T cells and dendritic cells which play an important role in immune surveillance. Alternative splicing results in multiple transcript variants.
NCEH1	Hydrolyzes 2-acetyl monoalkylglycerol ether, the penultimate precursor of the pathway for de novo synthesis of platelet-activating factor. May be responsible for cholesterol ester hydrolysis in macrophages, thereby contributing to the development of atherosclerosis. Also involved in organ detoxification by hydrolyzing exogenous organophosphorus compounds. May contribute to cancer pathogenesis by promoting tumor cell migration.
NCK1	The protein encoded by this gene is one of the signaling and transforming proteins containing Src homology 2 and 3 (SH2 and SH3) domains. It is located in the cytoplasm and is an adaptor protein involved in transducing signals from receptor tyrosine kinases to downstream signal recipients such as RAS. Alternatively spliced transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been found.
NCOA1	The protein encoded by this gene acts as a transcriptional coactivator for steroid and nuclear hormone receptors. It is a member of the p160/steroid receptor coactivator (SRC) family and like other family members has histone acetyltransferase activity and contains a nuclear localization signal, as well as bHLH and PAS domains. The product of this gene binds nuclear receptors directly and stimulates the transcriptional activities in a hormone-dependent fashion. Alternatively spliced transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been identified.
NCOA3	The protein encoded by this gene is a nuclear receptor coactivator that interacts with nuclear hormone receptors to enhance their transcriptional activator functions. The encoded protein has histone acetyltransferase activity and recruits p300/CBP-associated factor and CREB binding protein as part of a multisubunit coactivation complex. This protein is initially found in the cytoplasm but is translocated into the nucleus upon phosphorylation. Several transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been found for this gene. In addition, a polymorphic repeat region is found in the C-terminus of the encoded protein.
NCSTN	This gene encodes a type I transmembrane glycoprotein that is an integral component of the multimeric gamma-secretase complex. The encoded protein cleaves integral membrane proteins, including Notch receptors and beta-amyloid precursor protein, and may be a stabilizing cofactor required for gamma-secretase complex assembly. The cleavage of beta-amyloid precursor protein yields amyloid beta peptide, the main component of the neuritic plaque and the hallmark lesion in the brains of patients with Alzheimer's disease; however, the nature of the encoded protein's role in Alzheimer's disease is not known for certain. Mutations in this gene are associated with familial acne inversa. A pseudogene of this gene is present on chromosome 21. Alternatively spliced transcript variants of this gene have been described, but the full-length nature of some of these variants has not been determined.
NDC80	This gene encodes a component of the NDC80 kinetochore complex. The encoded protein consists of an N-terminal microtubule binding domain and a C-terminal coiled-coiled domain that interacts with other components of the complex. This protein functions to organize and stabilize microtubule-kinetochore interactions and is required for proper chromosome segregation.
NDUFA4	The protein encoded by this gene belongs to the complex I 9kDa subunit family. Mammalian complex I of mitochondrial respiratory chain is composed of 45 different subunits. This protein has NADH dehydrogenase activity and oxidoreductase activity. It transfers electrons from NADH to the respiratory chain. The immediate electron acceptor for the enzyme is believed to be ubiquinone.
NDUFS8	This gene encodes a subunit of mitochondrial NADH:ubiquinone oxidoreductase, or Complex I, a multimeric enzyme of the respiratory chain responsible for NADH oxidation, ubiquinone reduction, and the ejection of protons from mitochondria. The encoded protein is involved in the binding of two of the six to eight iron-sulfur clusters of Complex I and, as such, is required in the electron transfer process. Mutations in this gene have been associated with Leigh syndrome.
NEDD4	This gene is the founding member of the NEDD4 family of HECT ubiquitin ligases that function in the ubiquitin proteasome system of protein degradation. The encoded protein contains an N-terminal calcium and phospholipid binding C2 domain followed by multiple tryptophan-rich WW domains and, a C-terminal HECT ubiquitin ligase catalytic domain. It plays critical role in the regulation of a number of membrane receptors, endocytic machinery components and the tumor suppressor PTEN.
NEK1	The protein encoded by this gene is a serine/threonine kinase involved in cell cycle regulation. The encoded protein is found in a centrosomal complex with FEZ1, a neuronal protein that plays a role in axonal development. Defects in this gene are a cause of polycystic kidney disease (PKD). Several transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been found for this gene.
NEK11	This gene encodes a member of the never in mitosis gene A family of kinases. The encoded protein localizes to the nucleoli, and may function with NEK2A in the S-phase checkpoint. The encoded protein appears to play roles in DNA replication and response to genotoxic stress. Alternatively spliced transcript variants have been described.
NEK2	This gene encodes a serine/threonine-protein kinase that is involved in mitotic regulation. This protein is localized to the centrosome, and undetectable during G1 phase, but accumulates progressively throughout the S phase, reaching maximal levels in late G2 phase. Alternatively spliced transcript variants encoding different isoforms with distinct C-termini have been noted for this gene.
NEK3	This gene encodes a member of the NimA (never in mitosis A) family of serine/threonine protein kinases. The encoded protein differs from other NimA family members in that it is not cell cycle regulated and is found primarily in the cytoplasm. The kinase is activated by prolactin stimulation, leading to phosphorylation of VAV2 guanine nucleotide exchange factor, paxillin, and activation of the RAC1 GTPase. Multiple transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been found for this gene.
NEK4	The protein encoded by this gene is a serine/threonine protein kinase required for normal entry into replicative senescence. The encoded protein also is involved in cell cycle arrest in response to double-stranded DNA damage. Finally, this protein plays a role in maintaining cilium integrity, and defects in this gene have been associated with ciliopathies.
NEK6	The protein encoded by this gene is a kinase required for progression through the metaphase portion of mitosis. Inhibition of the encoded protein can lead to apoptosis. This protein also can enhance tumorigenesis by suppressing tumor cell senescence. Several transcript variants encoding a few different isoforms have been found for this gene.
NEK7	NIMA-related kinases share high amino acid sequence identity with the gene product of the Aspergillus nidulans 'never in mitosis A' gene, which controls initiation of mitosis.
NEK8	This gene encodes a member of the serine/threionine protein kinase family related to NIMA (never in mitosis, gene A) of Aspergillus nidulans. The encoded protein may play a role in cell cycle progression from G2 to M phase. Mutations in the related mouse gene are associated with a disease phenotype that closely parallels the juvenile autosomal recessive form of polycystic kidney disease in humans.
NEK9	This gene encodes a member of the NimA (never in mitosis A) family of serine/threonine protein kinases. The encoded protein is activated in mitosis and, in turn, activates other family members during mitosis. This protein also mediates cellular processes that are essential for interphase progression.
NEU1	The protein encoded by this gene is a lysosomal enzyme that cleaves terminal sialic acid residues from substrates such as glycoproteins and glycolipids. In the lysosome, this enzyme is part of a heterotrimeric complex together with beta-galactosidase and cathepsin A (the latter is also referred to as 'protective protein'). Mutations in this gene can lead to sialidosis, a lysosomal storage disease that can be type 1 (cherry red spot-myoclonus syndrome or normosomatic type), which is late-onset, or type 2 (the dysmorphic type), which occurs at an earlier age with increased severity.
NEU2	This gene belongs to a family of glycohydrolytic enzymes which remove sialic acid residues from glycoproteins and glycolipids. Expression studies in COS7 cells confirmed that this gene encodes a functional sialidase. Its cytosolic localization was demonstrated by cell fractionation experiments.
NEU3	This gene product belongs to a family of glycohydrolytic enzymes which remove sialic acid residues from glycoproteins and glycolipids. It is localized in the plasma membrane, and its activity is specific for gangliosides. It may play a role in modulating the ganglioside content of the lipid bilayer.
NEU4	The protein encoded by this gene belongs to a family of glycohydrolytic enzymes, which remove terminal sialic acid residues from various sialo derivatives, such as glycoproteins, glycolipids, oligosaccharides, and gangliosides. Alternatively spliced transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been noted for this gene.
NFATC1	The product of this gene is a component of the nuclear factor of activated T cells DNA-binding transcription complex. This complex consists of at least two components: a preexisting cytosolic component that translocates to the nucleus upon T cell receptor (TCR) stimulation, and an inducible nuclear component. Proteins belonging to this family of transcription factors play a central role in inducible gene transcription during immune response. The product of this gene is an inducible nuclear component. It functions as a major molecular target for the immunosuppressive drugs such as cyclosporin A. Multiple alternatively spliced transcript variants encoding distinct isoforms have been identified for this gene. Different isoforms of this protein may regulate inducible expression of different cytokine genes.
NFE2L2	This gene encodes a transcription factor which is a member of a small family of basic leucine zipper (bZIP) proteins. The encoded transcription factor regulates genes which contain antioxidant response elements (ARE) in their promoters; many of these genes encode proteins involved in response to injury and inflammation which includes the production of free radicals. Multiple transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been characterized for this gene.
NFKB1	This gene encodes a 105 kD protein which can undergo cotranslational processing by the 26S proteasome to produce a 50 kD protein. The 105 kD protein is a Rel protein-specific transcription inhibitor and the 50 kD protein is a DNA binding subunit of the NF-kappa-B (NFKB) protein complex. NFKB is a transcription regulator that is activated by various intra- and extra-cellular stimuli such as cytokines, oxidant-free radicals, ultraviolet irradiation, and bacterial or viral products. Activated NFKB translocates into the nucleus and stimulates the expression of genes involved in a wide variety of biological functions. Inappropriate activation of NFKB has been associated with a number of inflammatory diseases while persistent inhibition of NFKB leads to inappropriate immune cell development or delayed cell growth. Alternative splicing results in multiple transcript variants encoding different isoforms, at least one of which is proteolytically processed.
NFKB2	This gene encodes a subunit of the transcription factor complex nuclear factor-kappa-B (NFkB). The NFkB complex is expressed in numerous cell types and functions as a central activator of genes involved in inflammation and immune function. The protein encoded by this gene can function as both a transcriptional activator or repressor depending on its dimerization partner. The p100 full-length protein is co-translationally processed into a p52 active form. Chromosomal rearrangements and translocations of this locus have been observed in B cell lymphomas, some of which may result in the formation of fusion proteins. There is a pseudogene for this gene on chromosome 18. Alternative splicing results in multiple transcript variants.
NFKBIA	This gene encodes a member of the NF-kappa-B inhibitor family, which contain multiple ankrin repeat domains. The encoded protein interacts with REL dimers to inhibit NF-kappa-B/REL complexes which are involved in inflammatory responses. The encoded protein moves between the cytoplasm and the nucleus via a nuclear localization signal and CRM1-mediated nuclear export. Mutations in this gene have been found in ectodermal dysplasia anhidrotic with T-cell immunodeficiency autosomal dominant disease.
NGF	This gene is a member of the NGF-beta family and encodes a secreted protein which homodimerizes and is incorporated into a larger complex. This protein has nerve growth stimulating activity and the complex is involved in the regulation of growth and the differentiation of sympathetic and certain sensory neurons. Mutations in this gene have been associated with hereditary sensory and autonomic neuropathy, type 5 (HSAN5), and dysregulation of this gene's expression is associated with allergic rhinitis.
NGFR	Nerve growth factor receptor contains an extracellular domain containing four 40-amino acid repeats with 6 cysteine residues at conserved positions followed by a serine/threonine-rich region, a single transmembrane domain, and a 155-amino acid cytoplasmic domain. The cysteine-rich region contains the nerve growth factor binding domain.
NISCH	This gene encodes a nonadrenergic imidazoline-1 receptor protein that localizes to the cytosol and anchors to the inner layer of the plasma membrane. The orthologous mouse protein has been shown to influence cytoskeletal organization and cell migration by binding to alpha-5-beta-1 integrin. In humans, this protein has been shown to bind to the adapter insulin receptor substrate 4 (IRS4) to mediate translocation of alpha-5 integrin from the cell membrane to endosomes. Expression of this protein was reduced in human breast cancers while its overexpression reduced tumor growth and metastasis; possibly by limiting the expression of alpha-5 integrin. In human cardiac tissue, this gene was found to affect cell growth and death while in neural tissue it affected neuronal growth and differentiation. Alternative splicing results in multiple transcript variants encoding differerent isoforms. Some isoforms lack the expected C-terminal domains of a functional imidazoline receptor.
NKRF	This gene encodes a transcriptional repressor that interacts with specific negative regulatory elements to mediate transcriptional repression of certain nuclear factor kappa B responsive genes. The protein localizes predominantly to the nucleolus with a small fraction found in the nucleoplasm and cytoplasm. Alternate splicing results in multiple transcript variants.
NLK	Serine/threonine-protein kinase that regulates a number of transcription factors with key roles in cell fate determination. Positive effector of the non-canonical Wnt signaling pathway, acting downstream of WNT5A, MAP3K7/TAK1 and HIPK2. Activation of this pathway causes binding to and phosphorylation of the histone methyltransferase SETDB1. The NLK-SETDB1 complex subsequently interacts with PPARG, leading to methylation of PPARG target promoters at histone H3K9 and transcriptional silencing. The resulting loss of PPARG target gene transcription inhibits adipogenesis and promotes osteoblastogenesis in mesenchymal stem cells (MSCs). Negative regulator of the canonical Wnt/beta-catenin signaling pathway. Binds to and phosphorylates TCF7L2/TCF4 and LEF1, promoting the dissociation of the TCF7L2/LEF1/beta-catenin complex from DNA, as well as the ubiquitination and subsequent proteolysis of LEF1. Together these effects inhibit the transcriptional activation of canonical Wnt/beta-catenin target genes. Negative regulator of the Notch signaling pathway. Binds to and phosphorylates NOTCH1, thereby preventing the formation of a transcriptionally active ternary complex of NOTCH1, RBPJ/RBPSUH and MAML1. Negative regulator of the MYB family of transcription factors. Phosphorylation of MYB leads to its subsequent proteolysis while phosphorylation of MYBL1 and MYBL2 inhibits their interaction with the coactivator CREBBP. Other transcription factors may also be inhibited by direct phosphorylation of CREBBP itself. Acts downstream of IL6 and MAP3K7/TAK1 to phosphorylate STAT3, which is in turn required for activation of NLK by MAP3K7/TAK1. Upon IL1B stimulus, cooperates with ATF5 to activate the transactivation activity of C/EBP subfamily members. Phosphorylates ATF5 but also stabilizes ATF5 protein levels in a kinase-independent manner .
NLRP1	This gene encodes a member of the Ced-4 family of apoptosis proteins. Ced-family members contain a caspase recruitment domain (CARD) and are known to be key mediators of programmed cell death. The encoded protein contains a distinct N-terminal pyrin-like motif, which is possibly involved in protein-protein interactions. This protein interacts strongly with caspase 2 and weakly with caspase 9. Overexpression of this gene was demonstrated to induce apoptosis in cells. Multiple alternatively spliced transcript variants encoding distinct isoforms have been found for this gene, but the biological validity of some variants has not been determined.
NLRP3	This gene encodes a pyrin-like protein containing a pyrin domain, a nucleotide-binding site (NBS) domain, and a leucine-rich repeat (LRR) motif. This protein interacts with the apoptosis-associated speck-like protein PYCARD/ASC, which contains a caspase recruitment domain, and is a member of the NALP3 inflammasome complex. This complex functions as an upstream activator of NF-kappaB signaling, and it plays a role in the regulation of inflammation, the immune response, and apoptosis. Mutations in this gene are associated with familial cold autoinflammatory syndrome (FCAS), Muckle-Wells syndrome (MWS), chronic infantile neurological cutaneous and articular (CINCA) syndrome, and neonatal-onset multisystem inflammatory disease (NOMID). Multiple alternatively spliced transcript variants encoding distinct isoforms have been identified for this gene. Alternative 5' UTR structures are suggested by available data; however, insufficient evidence is available to determine if all of the represented 5' UTR splice patterns are biologically valid.
NMBR	This gene encodes a 7-transmembrane G protein-coupled receptor that binds neuromedin B, which is a growth factor and mitogen for gastrointestinal epithelial tissue and for normal and neoplastic lung. This receptor may play a role in smooth muscle contraction, neuronal responses, and the regulation of cell growth. Antagonists of this receptor have a potential therapeutic use in inhibiting tumor cell growth. Polymorphisms in this gene may be associated with a susceptibility for schizophrenia. Alternative splicing of this gene results in multiple transcript variants.
NME1	This gene (NME1) was identified because of its reduced mRNA transcript levels in highly metastatic cells. Nucleoside diphosphate kinase (NDK) exists as a hexamer composed of 'A' (encoded by this gene) and 'B' (encoded by NME2) isoforms. Mutations in this gene have been identified in aggressive neuroblastomas. Two transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been found for this gene. Co-transcription of this gene and the neighboring downstream gene (NME2) generates naturally-occurring transcripts (NME1-NME2), which encodes a fusion protein comprised of sequence sharing identity with each individual gene product.
NME2	Nucleoside diphosphate kinase (NDK) exists as a hexamer composed of 'A' (encoded by NME1) and 'B' (encoded by this gene) isoforms. Multiple alternatively spliced transcript variants have been found for this gene. Read-through transcription from the neighboring upstream gene (NME1) generates naturally-occurring transcripts (NME1-NME2) that encode a fusion protein comprised of sequence sharing identity with each individual gene product.
NMT1	Myristate, a rare 14-carbon saturated fatty acid, is cotranslationally attached by an amide linkage to the N-terminal glycine residue of cellular and viral proteins with diverse functions. N-myristoyltransferase (NMT; EC 2.3.1.97) catalyzes the transfer of myristate from CoA to proteins. N-myristoylation appears to be irreversible and is required for full expression of the biologic activities of several N-myristoylated proteins, including the alpha subunit of the signal-transducing guanine nucleotide-binding protein (G protein) GO (GNAO1; MIM 139311) (Duronio et al., 1992
NMT2	This gene encodes one of two N-myristoyltransferase proteins. N-terminal myristoylation is a lipid modification that is involved in regulating the function and localization of signaling proteins. The encoded protein catalyzes the addition of a myristoyl group to the N-terminal glycine residue of many signaling proteins, including the human immunodeficiency virus type 1 (HIV-1) proteins, Gag and Nef. Alternative splicing results in multiple transcript variants.
NMUR1	Receptor for the neuromedin-U and neuromedin-S neuropeptides.
NMUR2	This gene encodes a protein from the G-protein coupled receptor 1 family. This protein is a receptor for neuromedin U, which is a neuropeptide that is widely distributed in the gut and central nervous system. This receptor plays an important role in the regulation of food intake and body weight.
NNMT	N-methylation is one method by which drug and other xenobiotic compounds are metabolized by the liver. This gene encodes the protein responsible for this enzymatic activity which uses S-adenosyl methionine as the methyl donor.
NOD1	This gene encodes a member of the nucleotide-binding oligomerization domain (NOD)-like receptor (NLR) family of proteins. The encoded protein plays a role in innate immunity by acting as a pattern-recognition receptor (PRR) that binds bacterial peptidoglycans and initiates inflammation. This protein has also been implicated in the immune response to viral and parasitic infection. Major structural features of this protein include an N-terminal caspase recruitment domain (CARD), a centrally located nucleotide-binding domain (NBD), and 10 tandem leucine-rich repeats (LRRs) in its C terminus. The CARD is involved in apoptotic signaling, LRRs participate in protein-protein interactions, and mutations in the NBD may affect the process of oligomerization and subsequent function of the LRR domain. Mutations in this gene are associated with asthma, inflammatory bowel disease, Behcet disease and sarcoidosis in human patients.
NOD2	This gene is a member of the Nod1/Apaf-1 family and encodes a protein with two caspase recruitment (CARD) domains and six leucine-rich repeats (LRRs). The protein is primarily expressed in the peripheral blood leukocytes. It plays a role in the immune response to intracellular bacterial lipopolysaccharides (LPS) by recognizing the muramyl dipeptide (MDP) derived from them and activating the NFKB protein. Mutations in this gene have been associated with Crohn disease and Blau syndrome. Alternatively spliced transcript variants encoding distinct isoforms have been found for this gene.
NOS1	The protein encoded by this gene belongs to the family of nitric oxide synthases, which synthesize nitric oxide from L-arginine. Nitric oxide is a reactive free radical, which acts as a biologic mediator in several processes, including neurotransmission, and antimicrobial and antitumoral activities. In the brain and peripheral nervous system, nitric oxide displays many properties of a neurotransmitter, and has been implicated in neurotoxicity associated with stroke and neurodegenerative diseases, neural regulation of smooth muscle, including peristalsis, and penile erection. This protein is ubiquitously expressed, with high level of expression in skeletal muscle. Multiple transcript variants that differ in the 5' UTR have been described for this gene but the full-length nature of these transcripts is not known. Additionally, alternatively spliced transcript variants encoding different isoforms (some testis-specific) have been found for this gene.
NOS2	Nitric oxide is a reactive free radical which acts as a biologic mediator in several processes, including neurotransmission and antimicrobial and antitumoral activities. This gene encodes a nitric oxide synthase which is expressed in liver and is inducible by a combination of lipopolysaccharide and certain cytokines. Three related pseudogenes are located within the Smith-Magenis syndrome region on chromosome 17.
NOS3	Nitric oxide is a reactive free radical which acts as a biologic mediator in several processes, including neurotransmission and antimicrobial and antitumoral activities. Nitric oxide is synthesized from L-arginine by nitric oxide synthases. Variations in this gene are associated with susceptibility to coronary spasm. Alternative splicing and the use of alternative promoters results in multiple transcript variants.
NOTCH1	This gene encodes a member of the NOTCH family of proteins. Members of this Type I transmembrane protein family share structural characteristics including an extracellular domain consisting of multiple epidermal growth factor-like (EGF) repeats, and an intracellular domain consisting of multiple different domain types. Notch signaling is an evolutionarily conserved intercellular signaling pathway that regulates interactions between physically adjacent cells through binding of Notch family receptors to their cognate ligands. The encoded preproprotein is proteolytically processed in the trans-Golgi network to generate two polypeptide chains that heterodimerize to form the mature cell-surface receptor. This receptor plays a role in the development of numerous cell and tissue types. Mutations in this gene are associated with aortic valve disease, Adams-Oliver syndrome, T-cell acute lymphoblastic leukemia, chronic lymphocytic leukemia, and head and neck squamous cell carcinoma.
NOTCH2	This gene encodes a member of the Notch family. Members of this Type 1 transmembrane protein family share structural characteristics including an extracellular domain consisting of multiple epidermal growth factor-like (EGF) repeats, and an intracellular domain consisting of multiple, different domain types. Notch family members play a role in a variety of developmental processes by controlling cell fate decisions. The Notch signaling network is an evolutionarily conserved intercellular signaling pathway which regulates interactions between physically adjacent cells. In Drosophilia, notch interaction with its cell-bound ligands (delta, serrate) establishes an intercellular signaling pathway that plays a key role in development. Homologues of the notch-ligands have also been identified in human, but precise interactions between these ligands and the human notch homologues remain to be determined. This protein is cleaved in the trans-Golgi network, and presented on the cell surface as a heterodimer. This protein functions as a receptor for membrane bound ligands, and may play a role in vascular, renal and hepatic development. Two transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been found for this gene.
NOTCH3	This gene encodes the third discovered human homologue of the Drosophilia melanogaster type I membrane protein notch. In Drosophilia, notch interaction with its cell-bound ligands (delta, serrate) establishes an intercellular signalling pathway that plays a key role in neural development. Homologues of the notch-ligands have also been identified in human, but precise interactions between these ligands and the human notch homologues remains to be determined. Mutations in NOTCH3 have been identified as the underlying cause of cerebral autosomal dominant arteriopathy with subcortical infarcts and leukoencephalopathy (CADASIL).
NOTCH4	This gene encodes a member of the NOTCH family of proteins. Members of this Type I transmembrane protein family share structural characteristics including an extracellular domain consisting of multiple epidermal growth factor-like (EGF) repeats, and an intracellular domain consisting of multiple different domain types. Notch signaling is an evolutionarily conserved intercellular signaling pathway that regulates interactions between physically adjacent cells through binding of Notch family receptors to their cognate ligands. The encoded preproprotein is proteolytically processed in the trans-Golgi network to generate two polypeptide chains that heterodimerize to form the mature cell-surface receptor. This receptor may play a role in vascular, renal and hepatic development. Mutations in this gene may be associated with schizophrenia. Alternative splicing results in multiple transcript variants, at least one of which encodes an isoform that is proteolytically processed.
NOTUM	Carboxylesterase that acts as a key negative regulator of the Wnt signaling pathway by specifically mediating depalmitoleoylation of WNT proteins. Serine palmitoleoylation of WNT proteins is required for efficient binding to frizzled receptors .
NOX1	This gene encodes a member of the NADPH oxidase family of enzymes responsible for the catalytic one-electron transfer of oxygen to generate superoxide or hydrogen peroxide. Alternatively spliced transcript variants encoding multiple isoforms have been observed for this gene.
NOX3	This gene encodes a member of the NOX family of NADPH oxidases. These enzymes have the capacity to generate superoxide and other reactive oxygen species (ROS) and transport electrons across the plasma membrane. The ROS generated by family members have been implicated in numerous biological functions including host defense, posttranlational processing of proteins, cellular signaling, regulation of gene expression, and cell differentiation. The protein encoded by this gene is expressed predominantly in the inner ear and is involved in the biogenesis of otoconia/otolith, which are crystalline structures of the inner ear involved in the perception of gravity.
NOX4	This gene encodes a member of the NOX-family of enzymes that functions as the catalytic subunit the NADPH oxidase complex. The encoded protein is localized to non-phagocytic cells where it acts as an oxygen sensor and catalyzes the reduction of molecular oxygen to various reactive oxygen species (ROS). The ROS generated by this protein have been implicated in numerous biological functions including signal transduction, cell differentiation and tumor cell growth. A pseudogene has been identified on the other arm of chromosome 11. Alternative splicing results in multiple transcript variants.
NOX5	This gene is predominantly expressed in the testis and lymphocyte-rich areas of spleen and lymph nodes. It encodes a calcium-dependen NADPH oxidase that generates superoxide, and functions as a calcium-dependent proton channel that may regulate redox-dependent processes in lymphocytes and spermatozoa. Alternatively spliced transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been described for this gene.
NPBWR1	Interacts specifically with a number of opioid ligands. Receptor for neuropeptides B and W, which may be involved in neuroendocrine system regulation, food intake and the organization of other signals. Has a higher affinity for neuropeptide B.
NPC1	This gene encodes a large protein that resides in the limiting membrane of endosomes and lysosomes and mediates intracellular cholesterol trafficking via binding of cholesterol to its N-terminal domain. It is predicted to have a cytoplasmic C-terminus, 13 transmembrane domains, and 3 large loops in the lumen of the endosome
NPC1L1	The protein encoded by this gene is a multi-pass membrane protein. It contains a conserved N-terminal Niemann-Pick C1 (NPC1) domain and a putative sterol-sensing domain (SSD) which includes a YQRL motif functioning as a plasma membrane to trans-Golgi network transport signal in other proteins. This protein takes up free cholesterol into cells through vesicular endocytosis and plays a critical role in the absorption of intestinal cholesterol. It also has the ability to transport alpha-tocopherol (vitamin E). The drug ezetimibe targets this protein and inhibits the absorption of intestinal cholesterol and alpha-tocopherol. In addition, this protein may play a critical role in regulating lipid metabolism. Polymorphic variations in this gene are associated with plasma total cholesterol and low-density lipoprotein cholesterol (LDL-C) levels and coronary heart disease (CHD) risk. Alternatively spliced transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been found for this gene.
NPEPPS	This gene encodes the puromycin-sensitive aminopeptidase, a zinc metallopeptidase which hydrolyzes amino acids from the N-terminus of its substrate. The protein has been localized to both the cytoplasm and to cellular membranes. This enzyme degrades enkaphalins in the brain, and studies in mouse suggest that it is involved in proteolytic events regulating the cell cycle.
NPFFR1	Receptor for NPAF (A-18-F-amide) and NPFF (F-8-F-amide) neuropeptides, also known as morphine-modulating peptides. Can also be activated by a variety of naturally occurring or synthetic FMRF-amide like ligands. This receptor mediates its action by association with G proteins that activate a phosphatidylinositol-calcium second messenger system.
NPFFR2	This gene encodes a member of a subfamily of G-protein-coupled neuropeptide receptors. This protein is activated by the neuropeptides A-18-amide (NPAF) and F-8-amide (NPFF) and may function in pain modulation and regulation of the opioid system. Alternative splicing results in multiple transcript variants.
NPM1	The protein encoded by this gene is involved in several cellular processes, including centrosome duplication, protein chaperoning, and cell proliferation. The encoded phosphoprotein shuttles between the nucleolus, nucleus, and cytoplasm, chaperoning ribosomal proteins and core histones from the nucleus to the cytoplasm. This protein is also known to sequester the tumor suppressor ARF in the nucleolus, protecting it from degradation until it is needed. Mutations in this gene are associated with acute myeloid leukemia. Dozens of pseudogenes of this gene have been identified.
NPPA	The protein encoded by this gene belongs to the natriuretic peptide family. Natriuretic peptides are implicated in the control of extracellular fluid volume and electrolyte homeostasis. This protein is synthesized as a large precursor (containing a signal peptide), which is processed to release a peptide from the N-terminus with similarity to vasoactive peptide, cardiodilatin, and another peptide from the C-terminus with natriuretic-diuretic activity. Mutations in this gene have been associated with atrial fibrillation familial type 6. This gene is located adjacent to another member of the natriuretic family of peptides on chromosome 1.
NPR1	Guanylyl cyclases, catalyzing the production of cGMP from GTP, are classified as soluble and membrane forms (Garbers and Lowe, 1994
NPR3	This gene encodes one of three natriuretic peptide receptors. Natriutetic peptides are small peptides which regulate blood volume and pressure, pulmonary hypertension, and cardiac function as well as some metabolic and growth processes. The product of this gene encodes a natriuretic peptide receptor responsible for clearing circulating and extracellular natriuretic peptides through endocytosis of the receptor. Multiple transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been found for this gene.
NPS	Modulates arousal and anxiety. May play an important anorexigenic role (By similarity). Binds to its receptor NPSR1 with nanomolar affinity to increase intracellular calcium concentrations .
NPSR1	This gene encodes a member of the vasopressin/oxytocin subfamily of G protein-coupled receptors. The encoded membrane protein acts as a receptor for neuropeptide S and affects a variety of cellular processes through its signaling. Increased expression of this gene in ciliated cells of the respiratory epithelium and in bronchial smooth muscle cells is associated with asthma. Polymorphisms in this gene have also been associated with asthma susceptibility, panic disorders, inflammatory bowel disease, and rheumatoid arthritis. Alternative splicing results in multiple transcript variants.
NPY1R	This gene belongs to the G-protein-coupled receptor superfamily. The encoded transmembrane protein mediates the function of neuropeptide Y (NPY), a neurotransmitter, and peptide YY (PYY), a gastrointestinal hormone. The encoded receptor undergoes fast agonist-induced internalization through clathrin-coated pits and is subsequently recycled back to the cell membrane. Activation of Y1 receptors may result in mobilization of intracellular calcium and inhibition of adenylate cyclase activity.
NPY2R	Receptor for neuropeptide Y and peptide YY. The rank order of affinity of this receptor for pancreatic polypeptides is PYY > NPY > PYY (3-36) > NPY (2-36) >  PYY and NPY free acid.
NPY4R	Receptor for neuropeptide Y and peptide YY. The rank order of affinity of this receptor for pancreatic polypeptides is PP, PP (2-36) and  NPY > NPY > PYY (3-36) and NPY (2-36) > PP (13-36) > PP (31-36) > NPY free acid.
NPY5R	The protein encoded by this gene is a receptor for neuropeptide Y and peptide YY. The encoded protein appears to be involved in regulating food intake, with defects in this gene being associated with eating disorders. Also, the encoded protein is involved in a pathway that protects neuroblastoma cells from chemotherapy-induced cell death, providing a possible therapeutic target against neuroblastoma. Three transcript variants encoding the same protein have been found for this gene.
NQO1	This gene is a member of the NAD(P)H dehydrogenase (quinone) family and encodes a cytoplasmic 2-electron reductase. This FAD-binding protein forms homodimers and reduces quinones to hydroquinones. This protein's enzymatic activity prevents the one electron reduction of quinones that results in the production of radical species. Mutations in this gene have been associated with tardive dyskinesia (TD), an increased risk of hematotoxicity after exposure to benzene, and susceptibility to various forms of cancer. Altered expression of this protein has been seen in many tumors and is also associated with Alzheimer's disease (AD). Alternate transcriptional splice variants, encoding different isoforms, have been characterized.
NQO2	This gene encodes a member of the thioredoxin family of enzymes. It is a cytosolic and ubiquitously expressed flavoprotein that catalyzes the two-electron reduction of quinone substrates and uses dihydronicotinamide riboside as a reducing coenzyme. Mutations in this gene have been associated with neurodegenerative diseases and several cancers. Alternative splicing results in multiple transcript variants.
NR0B1	This gene encodes a protein that contains a DNA-binding domain. The encoded protein acts as a dominant-negative regulator of transcription which is mediated by the retinoic acid receptor. This protein also functions as an anti-testis gene by acting antagonistically to Sry. Mutations in this gene result in both X-linked congenital adrenal hypoplasia and hypogonadotropic hypogonadism.
NR0B2	The protein encoded by this gene is an unusual orphan receptor that contains a putative ligand-binding domain but lacks a conventional DNA-binding domain. The gene product is a member of the nuclear hormone receptor family, a group of transcription factors regulated by small hydrophobic hormones, a subset of which do not have known ligands and are referred to as orphan nuclear receptors. The protein has been shown to interact with retinoid and thyroid hormone receptors, inhibiting their ligand-dependent transcriptional activation. In addition, interaction with estrogen receptors has been demonstrated, leading to inhibition of function. Studies suggest that the protein represses nuclear hormone receptor-mediated transactivation via two separate steps: competition with coactivators and the direct effects of its transcriptional repressor function.
NR1D1	This gene encodes a transcription factor that is a member of the nuclear receptor subfamily 1. The encoded protein is a ligand-sensitive transcription factor that negatively regulates the expression of core clock proteins. In particular this protein represses the circadian clock transcription factor aryl hydrocarbon receptor nuclear translocator-like protein 1 (ARNTL). This protein may also be involved in regulating genes that function in metabolic, inflammatory and cardiovascular processes.
NR1D2	This gene encodes a member of the nuclear hormone receptor family, specifically the NR1 subfamily of receptors. The encoded protein functions as a transcriptional repressor and may play a role in circadian rhythms and carbohydrate and lipid metabolism. Alternatively spliced transcript variants have been described.
NR1H2	The liver X receptors, LXRA (NR1H3; MIM 602423) and LXRB, form a subfamily of the nuclear receptor superfamily and are key regulators of macrophage function, controlling transcriptional programs involved in lipid homeostasis and inflammation. The inducible LXRA is highly expressed in liver, adrenal gland, intestine, adipose tissue, macrophages, lung, and kidney, whereas LXRB is ubiquitously expressed. Ligand-activated LXRs form obligate heterodimers with retinoid X receptors (RXRs; see MIM 180245) and regulate expression of target genes containing LXR response elements (summary by Korf et al., 2009
NR1H3	The protein encoded by this gene belongs to the NR1 subfamily of the nuclear receptor superfamily. The NR1 family members are key regulators of macrophage function, controlling transcriptional programs involved in lipid homeostasis and inflammation. This protein is highly expressed in visceral organs, including liver, kidney and intestine. It forms a heterodimer with retinoid X receptor (RXR), and regulates expression of target genes containing retinoid response elements. Studies in mice lacking this gene suggest that it may play an important role in the regulation of cholesterol homeostasis. Alternatively spliced transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been found for this gene.
NR1H4	This gene encodes a ligand-activated transcription factor that shares structural features in common with nuclear hormone receptor family members. This protein functions as a receptor for bile acids, and when bound to bile acids, binds to DNA and regulates the expression of genes involved in bile acid synthesis and transport. Alternatively spliced transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been described.
NR1I2	This gene product belongs to the nuclear receptor superfamily, members of which are transcription factors characterized by a ligand-binding domain and a DNA-binding domain. The encoded protein is a transcriptional regulator of the cytochrome P450 gene CYP3A4, binding to the response element of the CYP3A4 promoter as a heterodimer with the 9-cis retinoic acid receptor RXR. It is activated by a range of compounds that induce CYP3A4, including dexamethasone and rifampicin. Several alternatively spliced transcripts encoding different isoforms, some of which use non-AUG (CUG) translation initiation codon, have been described for this gene. Additional transcript variants exist, however, they have not been fully characterized.
NR1I3	This gene encodes a member of the nuclear receptor superfamily, and is a key regulator of xenobiotic and endobiotic metabolism. The protein binds to DNA as a monomer or a heterodimer with the retinoid X receptor and regulates the transcription of target genes involved in drug metabolism and bilirubin clearance, such as cytochrome P450 family members. Unlike most nuclear receptors, this transcriptional regulator is constitutively active in the absence of ligand but is regulated by both agonists and inverse agonists. Ligand binding results in translocation of this protein to the nucleus, where it activates or represses target gene transcription. These ligands include bilirubin, a variety of foreign compounds, steroid hormones, and prescription drugs. Multiple transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been found for this gene.
NR2C1	This gene encodes a nuclear hormone receptor characterized by a highly conserved DNA binding domain (DBD), a variable hinge region, and a carboxy-terminal ligand binding domain (LBD) that is typical for all members of the steroid/thyroid hormone receptor superfamily. This protein also belongs to a large family of ligand-inducible transcription factors that regulate gene expression by binding to specific DNA sequences within promoters of target genes. Multiple alternatively spliced transcript variants have been described, but the full-length nature of some of these variants has not been determined.
NR2C2	This gene encodes a protein that belongs to the nuclear hormone receptor family. Members of this family act as ligand-activated transcription factors and function in many biological processes such as development, cellular differentiation and homeostasis. The activated receptor/ligand complex is translocated to the nucleus where it binds to hormone response elements of target genes. The protein encoded by this gene plays a role in protecting cells from oxidative stress and damage induced by ionizing radiation. The lack of a similar gene in mouse results in growth retardation, severe spinal curvature, subfertility, premature aging, and prostatic intraepithelial neoplasia (PIN) development. Alternative splicing results in multiple transcript variants encoding different isoforms.
NR2E1	The protein encoded by this gene is an orphan receptor involved in retinal development. The encoded protein also regulates adult neural stem cell proliferation and may be involved in control of aggressive behavior. Two transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been found for this gene.
NR2F1	The protein encoded by this gene is a nuclear hormone receptor and transcriptional regulator. The encoded protein acts as a homodimer and binds to 5'-AGGTCA-3' repeats. Defects in this gene are a cause of Bosch-Boonstra optic atrophy syndrome (BBOAS).
NR2F2	This gene encodes a member of the steroid thyroid hormone superfamily of nuclear receptors. The encoded protein is a ligand inducible transcription factor that is involved in the regulation of many different genes. Alternate splicing results in multiple transcript variants.
NR2F6	Transcription factor predominantly involved in transcriptional repression. Binds to promoter/enhancer response elements that contain the imperfect 5'-AGGTCA-3' direct or inverted repeats with various spacings which are also recognized by other nuclear hormone receptors. Involved in modulation of hormonal responses. Represses transcriptional activity of the lutropin-choriogonadotropic hormone receptor/LHCGR gene, the renin/REN gene and the oxytocin-neurophysin/OXT gene. Represses the triiodothyronine-dependent and -independent transcriptional activity of the thyroid hormone receptor gene in a cell type-specific manner. The corepressing function towards thyroid hormone receptor beta/THRB involves at least in part the inhibition of THRB binding to triiodothyronine response elements (TREs) by NR2F6. Inhibits NFATC transcription factor DNA binding and subsequently its transcriptional activity. Acts as transcriptional repressor of IL-17 expression in Th-17 differentiated CD4(+) T cells and may be involved in induction and/or maintenance of peripheral immunological tolerance and autoimmunity. Involved in development of forebrain circadian clock; is required early in the development of the locus coeruleus (LC).
NR3C1	This gene encodes glucocorticoid receptor, which can function both as a transcription factor that binds to glucocorticoid response elements in the promoters of glucocorticoid responsive genes to activate their transcription, and as a regulator of other transcription factors. This receptor is typically found in the cytoplasm, but upon ligand binding, is transported into the nucleus. It is involved in inflammatory responses, cellular proliferation, and differentiation in target tissues. Mutations in this gene are associated with generalized glucocorticoid resistance. Alternative splicing of this gene results in transcript variants encoding either the same or different isoforms. Additional isoforms resulting from the use of alternate in-frame translation initiation sites have also been described, and shown to be functional, displaying diverse cytoplasm-to-nucleus trafficking patterns and distinct transcriptional activities (PMID:15866175).
NR3C2	This gene encodes the mineralocorticoid receptor, which mediates aldosterone actions on salt and water balance within restricted target cells. The protein functions as a ligand-dependent transcription factor that binds to mineralocorticoid response elements in order to transactivate target genes. Mutations in this gene cause autosomal dominant pseudohypoaldosteronism type I, a disorder characterized by urinary salt wasting. Defects in this gene are also associated with early onset hypertension with severe exacerbation in pregnancy. Alternative splicing results in multiple transcript variants.
NR4A1	This gene encodes a member of the steroid-thyroid hormone-retinoid receptor superfamily. Expression is induced by phytohemagglutinin in human lymphocytes and by serum stimulation of arrested fibroblasts. The encoded protein acts as a nuclear transcription factor. Translocation of the protein from the nucleus to mitochondria induces apoptosis. Multiple transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been found for this gene.
NR4A2	This gene encodes a member of the steroid-thyroid hormone-retinoid receptor superfamily. The encoded protein may act as a transcription factor. Mutations in this gene have been associated with disorders related to dopaminergic dysfunction, including Parkinson disease, schizophernia, and manic depression. Misregulation of this gene may be associated with rheumatoid arthritis. Alternatively spliced transcript variants have been described, but their biological validity has not been determined.
NR4A3	This gene encodes a member of the steroid-thyroid hormone-retinoid receptor superfamily. The encoded protein may act as a transcriptional activator. The protein can efficiently bind the NGFI-B Response Element (NBRE). Three different versions of extraskeletal myxoid chondrosarcomas (EMCs) are the result of reciprocal translocations between this gene and other genes. The translocation breakpoints are associated with Nuclear Receptor Subfamily 4, Group A, Member 3 (on chromosome 9) and either Ewing Sarcome Breakpoint Region 1 (on chromosome 22), RNA Polymerase II, TATA Box-Binding Protein-Associated Factor, 68-KD (on chromosome 17), or Transcription factor 12 (on chromosome 15). Multiple transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been found for this gene.
NR5A1	The protein encoded by this gene is a transcriptional activator involved in sex determination. The encoded protein binds DNA as a monomer. Defects in this gene are a cause of XY sex reversal with or without adrenal failure as well as adrenocortical insufficiency without ovarian defect.
NR5A2	The protein encoded by this gene is a DNA-binding zinc finger transcription factor and is a member of the fushi tarazu factor-1 subfamily of orphan nuclear receptors. The encoded protein is involved in the expression of genes for hepatitis B virus and cholesterol biosynthesis, and may be an important regulator of embryonic development.
NR6A1	This gene encodes an orphan nuclear receptor which is a member of the nuclear hormone receptor family. Its expression pattern suggests that it may be involved in neurogenesis and germ cell development. The protein can homodimerize and bind DNA, but in vivo targets have not been identified. Alternate splicing results in multiple transcript variants.
NRAS	This is an N-ras oncogene encoding a membrane protein that shuttles between the Golgi apparatus and the plasma membrane. This shuttling is regulated through palmitoylation and depalmitoylation by the ZDHHC9-GOLGA7 complex. The encoded protein, which has intrinsic GTPase activity, is activated by a guanine nucleotide-exchange factor and inactivated by a GTPase activating protein. Mutations in this gene have been associated with somatic rectal cancer, follicular thyroid cancer, autoimmune lymphoproliferative syndrome, Noonan syndrome, and juvenile myelomonocytic leukemia.
NRP1	This gene encodes one of two neuropilins, which contain specific protein domains which allow them to participate in several different types of signaling pathways that control cell migration. Neuropilins contain a large N-terminal extracellular domain, made up of complement-binding, coagulation factor V/VIII, and meprin domains. These proteins also contains a short membrane-spanning domain and a small cytoplasmic domain. Neuropilins bind many ligands and various types of co-receptors; they affect cell survival, migration, and attraction. Some of the ligands and co-receptors bound by neuropilins are vascular endothelial growth factor (VEGF) and semaphorin family members. Several alternatively spliced transcript variants that encode different protein isoforms have been described for this gene.
NSD1	This gene encodes a protein containing a SET domain, 2 LXXLL motifs, 3 nuclear translocation signals (NLSs), 4 plant homeodomain (PHD) finger regions, and a proline-rich region. The encoded protein enhances androgen receptor (AR) transactivation, and this enhancement can be increased further in the presence of other androgen receptor associated coregulators. This protein may act as a nucleus-localized, basic transcriptional factor and also as a bifunctional transcriptional regulator. Mutations of this gene have been associated with Sotos syndrome and Weaver syndrome. One version of childhood acute myeloid leukemia is the result of a cryptic translocation with the breakpoints occurring within nuclear receptor-binding Su-var, enhancer of zeste, and trithorax domain protein 1 on chromosome 5 and nucleoporin, 98-kd on chromosome 11. Multiple transcript variants encoding distinct isoforms have been identified for this gene.
NSF	Required for vesicle-mediated transport. Catalyzes the fusion of transport vesicles within the Golgi cisternae. Is also required for transport from the endoplasmic reticulum to the Golgi stack. Seems to function as a fusion protein required for the delivery of cargo proteins to all compartments of the Golgi stack independent of vesicle origin. Interaction with AMPAR subunit GRIA2 leads to influence GRIA2 membrane cycling (By similarity).
NT5C	This gene encodes a nucleotidase that catalyzes the dephosphorylation of the 5' deoxyribonucleotides (dNTP) and 2'(3')-dNTP and ribonucleotides, but not 5' ribonucleotides. Of the different forms of nucleotidases characterized, this enzyme is unique in its preference for 5'-dNTP. It may be one of the enzymes involved in regulating the size of dNTP pools in cells. Alternatively spliced transcript variants have been found for this gene.
NT5C2	This gene encodes a hydrolase that serves as an important role in cellular purine metabolism by acting primarily on inosine 5'-monophosphate and other purine nucleotides.
NT5E	The protein encoded by this gene is a plasma membrane protein that catalyzes the conversion of extracellular nucleotides to membrane-permeable nucleosides. The encoded protein is used as a determinant of lymphocyte differentiation. Defects in this gene can lead to the calcification of joints and arteries. Two transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been found for this gene.
NT5M	This gene encodes a 5' nucleotidase that localizes to the mitochondrial matrix. This enzyme dephosphorylates the 5'- and 2'(3')-phosphates of uracil and thymine deoxyribonucleotides. The gene is located within the Smith-Magenis syndrome region on chromosome 17.
NTRK1	This gene encodes a member of the neurotrophic tyrosine kinase receptor (NTKR) family. This kinase is a membrane-bound receptor that, upon neurotrophin binding, phosphorylates itself and members of the MAPK pathway. The presence of this kinase leads to cell differentiation and may play a role in specifying sensory neuron subtypes. Mutations in this gene have been associated with congenital insensitivity to pain, anhidrosis, self-mutilating behavior, cognitive disability and cancer. Alternate transcriptional splice variants of this gene have been found, but only three have been characterized to date.
NTRK2	This gene encodes a member of the neurotrophic tyrosine receptor kinase (NTRK) family. This kinase is a membrane-bound receptor that, upon neurotrophin binding, phosphorylates itself and members of the MAPK pathway. Signalling through this kinase leads to cell differentiation. Mutations in this gene have been associated with obesity and mood disorders. Alternative splicing results in multiple transcript variants.
NTRK3	This gene encodes a member of the neurotrophic tyrosine receptor kinase (NTRK) family. This kinase is a membrane-bound receptor that, upon neurotrophin binding, phosphorylates itself and members of the MAPK pathway. Signalling through this kinase leads to cell differentiation and may play a role in the development of proprioceptive neurons that sense body position. Mutations in this gene have been associated with medulloblastomas, secretory breast carcinomas and other cancers. Several transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been found for this gene.
NTSR1	Neurotensin receptor 1 belongs to the large superfamily of G-protein coupled receptors. NTSR1 mediates the multiple functions of neurotensin, such as hypotension, hyperglycemia, hypothermia, antinociception, and regulation of intestinal motility and secretion.
NTSR2	The protein encoded by this gene belongs to the G protein-coupled receptor family that activate a phosphatidylinositol-calcium second messenger system. Binding and pharmacological studies demonstrate that this receptor binds neurotensin as well as several other ligands already described for neurotensin NT1 receptor. However, unlike NT1 receptor, this gene recognizes, with high affinity, levocabastine, a histamine H1 receptor antagonist previously shown to compete with neurotensin for low-affinity binding sites in brain. These activities suggest that this receptor may be of physiological importance and that a natural agonist for the receptor may exist.
NUAK1	Serine/threonine-protein kinase involved in various processes such as cell adhesion, regulation of cell ploidy and senescence, cell proliferation and tumor progression. Phosphorylates ATM, CASP6, LATS1, PPP1R12A and p53/TP53. Acts as a regulator of cellular senescence and cellular ploidy by mediating phosphorylation of 'Ser-464' of LATS1, thereby controlling its stability. Controls cell adhesion by regulating activity of the myosin protein phosphatase 1 (PP1) complex. Acts by mediating phosphorylation of PPP1R12A subunit of myosin PP1: phosphorylated PPP1R12A then interacts with 14-3-3, leading to reduced dephosphorylation of myosin MLC2 by myosin PP1. May be involved in DNA damage response: phosphorylates p53/TP53 at 'Ser-15' and 'Ser-392' and is recruited to the CDKN1A/WAF1 promoter to participate to transcription activation by p53/TP53. May also act as a tumor malignancy-associated factor by promoting tumor invasion and metastasis under regulation and phosphorylation by AKT1. Suppresses Fas-induced apoptosis by mediating phosphorylation of CASP6, thereby suppressing the activation of the caspase and the subsequent cleavage of CFLAR. Regulates UV radiation-induced DNA damage response mediated by CDKN1A. In association with STK11, phosphorylates CDKN1A in response to UV radiation and contributes to its degradation which is necessary for optimal DNA repair .
NUAK2	Stress-activated kinase involved in tolerance to glucose starvation. Induces cell-cell detachment by increasing F-actin conversion to G-actin. Expression is induced by CD95 or TNF-alpha, via NF-kappa-B. Protects cells from CD95-mediated apoptosis and is required for the increased motility and invasiveness of CD95-activated tumor cells. Able to phosphorylate 'Ser-464' of LATS1.
NUDT1	Misincorporation of oxidized nucleoside triphosphates into DNA/RNA during replication and transcription can cause mutations that may result in carcinogenesis or neurodegeneration. The protein encoded by this gene is an enzyme that hydrolyzes oxidized purine nucleoside triphosphates, such as 8-oxo-dGTP, 8-oxo-dATP, 2-hydroxy-dATP, and 2-hydroxy rATP, to monophosphates, thereby preventing misincorporation. The encoded protein is localized mainly in the cytoplasm, with some in the mitochondria, suggesting that it is involved in the sanitization of nucleotide pools both for nuclear and mitochondrial genomes. Several alternatively spliced transcript variants, some of which encode distinct isoforms, have been identified. Additional variants have been observed, but their full-length natures have not been determined. A rare single-nucleotide polymorphism that results in the production of an additional, longer isoform (p26) has been described.
OAT	This gene encodes the mitochondrial enzyme ornithine aminotransferase, which is a key enzyme in the pathway that converts arginine and ornithine into the major excitatory and inhibitory neurotransmitters glutamate and GABA. Mutations that result in a deficiency of this enzyme cause the autosomal recessive eye disease Gyrate Atrophy. Alternatively spliced transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been described. Related pseudogenes have been defined on the X chromosome.
ODC1	This gene encodes the rate-limiting enzyme of the polyamine biosynthesis pathway which catalyzes ornithine to putrescine. The activity level for the enzyme varies in response to growth-promoting stimuli and exhibits a high turnover rate in comparison to other mammalian proteins. Originally localized to both chromosomes 2 and 7, the gene encoding this enzyme has been determined to be located on 2p25, with a pseudogene located on 7q31-qter. Multiple alternatively spliced transcript variants encoding distinct isoforms have been identified.
OGDH	This gene encodes one subunit of the 2-oxoglutarate dehydrogenase complex. This complex catalyzes the overall conversion of 2-oxoglutarate (alpha-ketoglutarate) to succinyl-CoA and CO(2) during the Krebs cycle. The protein is located in the mitochondrial matrix and uses thiamine pyrophosphate as a cofactor. A congenital deficiency in 2-oxoglutarate dehydrogenase activity is believed to lead to hypotonia, metabolic acidosis, and hyperlactatemia. Alternative splicing results in multiple transcript variants encoding distinct isoforms.
OGFRL1	This gene is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with OGFRL1 include Seminal Vesicle Tumor and Male Reproductive Organ Benign Neoplasm. Predicted to enable opioid growth factor receptor activity. Predicted to be located in membrane.
OGG1	This gene encodes the enzyme responsible for the excision of 8-oxoguanine, a mutagenic base byproduct which occurs as a result of exposure to reactive oxygen. The action of this enzyme includes lyase activity for chain cleavage. Alternative splicing of the C-terminal region of this gene classifies splice variants into two major groups, type 1 and type 2, depending on the last exon of the sequence. Type 1 alternative splice variants end with exon 7 and type 2 end with exon 8. All variants share the N-terminal region in common, which contains a mitochondrial targeting signal that is essential for mitochondrial localization. Many alternative splice variants for this gene have been described, but the full-length nature for every variant has not been determined.
OGT	This gene encodes a glycosyltransferase that catalyzes the addition of a single N-acetylglucosamine in O-glycosidic linkage to serine or threonine residues. Since both phosphorylation and glycosylation compete for similar serine or threonine residues, the two processes may compete for sites, or they may alter the substrate specificity of nearby sites by steric or electrostatic effects. The protein contains multiple tetratricopeptide repeats that are required for optimal recognition of substrates. Alternatively spliced transcript variants encoding distinct isoforms have been found for this gene.
OLR1	This gene encodes a low density lipoprotein receptor that belongs to the C-type lectin superfamily. This gene is regulated through the cyclic AMP signaling pathway. The encoded protein binds, internalizes and degrades oxidized low-density lipoprotein. This protein may be involved in the regulation of Fas-induced apoptosis. This protein may play a role as a scavenger receptor. Mutations of this gene have been associated with atherosclerosis, risk of myocardial infarction, and may modify the risk of Alzheimer's disease. Alternate splicing results in multiple transcript variants.
OPN1LW	This gene encodes for a light absorbing visual pigment of the opsin gene family. The encoded protein is called red cone photopigment or long-wavelength sensitive opsin. Opsins are G-protein coupled receptors with seven transmembrane domains, an N-terminal extracellular domain, and a C-terminal cytoplasmic domain. This gene and the medium-wavelength opsin gene are tandemly arrayed on the X chromosome and frequent unequal recombination and gene conversion may occur between these sequences. X chromosomes may have fusions of the medium- and long-wavelength opsin genes or may have more than one copy of these genes. Defects in this gene are the cause of partial, protanopic colorblindness.
OPRD1	G-protein coupled receptor that functions as receptor for endogenous enkephalins and for a subset of other opioids. Ligand binding causes a conformation change that triggers signaling via guanine nucleotide-binding proteins (G proteins) and modulates the activity of down-stream effectors, such as adenylate cyclase. Signaling leads to the inhibition of adenylate cyclase activity. Inhibits neurotransmitter release by reducing calcium ion currents and increasing potassium ion conductance. Plays a role in the perception of pain and in opiate-mediated analgesia. Plays a role in developing analgesic tolerance to morphine.
OPRK1	This gene encodes an opioid receptor, which is a member of the 7 transmembrane-spanning G protein-coupled receptor family. It functions as a receptor for endogenous ligands, as well as a receptor for various synthetic opioids. Ligand binding results in inhibition of adenylate cyclase activity and neurotransmitter release. This opioid receptor plays a role in the perception of pain and mediating the hypolocomotor, analgesic and aversive actions of synthetic opioids. Variations in this gene have also been associated with alcohol dependence and opiate addiction. Alternatively spliced transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been found for this gene. A recent study provided evidence for translational readthrough in this gene, and expression of an additional C-terminally extended isoform via the use of an alternative in-frame translation termination codon.
OPRL1	The protein encoded by this gene is a member of the 7 transmembrane-spanning G protein-coupled receptor family, and functions as a receptor for the endogenous, opioid-related neuropeptide, nociceptin/orphanin FQ. This receptor-ligand system modulates a variety of biological functions and neurobehavior, including stress responses and anxiety behavior, learning and memory, locomotor activity, and inflammatory and immune responses. A promoter region between this gene and the 5'-adjacent RGS19 (regulator of G-protein signaling 19) gene on the opposite strand functions bi-directionally as a core-promoter for both genes, suggesting co-operative transcriptional regulation of these two functionally related genes. Alternatively spliced transcript variants have been described for this gene. A recent study provided evidence for translational readthrough in this gene, and expression of an additional C-terminally extended isoform via the use of an alternative in-frame translation termination codon.
OPRM1	This gene encodes one of at least three opioid receptors in humans; the mu opioid receptor (MOR). The MOR is the principal target of endogenous opioid peptides and opioid analgesic agents such as beta-endorphin and enkephalins. The MOR also has an important role in dependence to other drugs of abuse, such as nicotine, cocaine, and alcohol via its modulation of the dopamine system. The NM_001008503.2:c.118A>G allele has been associated with opioid and alcohol addiction and variations in pain sensitivity but evidence for it having a causal role is conflicting. Multiple transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been found for this gene. Though the canonical MOR belongs to the superfamily of 7-transmembrane-spanning G-protein-coupled receptors some isoforms of this gene have only 6 transmembrane domains.
OR5K1	Olfactory receptors interact with odorant molecules in the nose, to initiate a neuronal response that triggers the perception of a smell. The olfactory receptor proteins are members of a large family of G-protein-coupled receptors (GPCR) arising from single coding-exon genes. Olfactory receptors share a 7-transmembrane domain structure with many neurotransmitter and hormone receptors and are responsible for the recognition and G protein-mediated transduction of odorant signals. The olfactory receptor gene family is the largest in the genome. The nomenclature assigned to the olfactory receptor genes and proteins for this organism is independent of other organisms.
ORAI1	The protein encoded by this gene is a membrane calcium channel subunit that is activated by the calcium sensor STIM1 when calcium stores are depleted. This type of channel is the primary way for calcium influx into T-cells. Defects in this gene are a cause of immune dysfunction with T-cell inactivation due to calcium entry defect type 1 (IDTICED1).
ORM1	This gene encodes a key acute phase plasma protein.  Because of its increase due to acute inflammation, this protein is classified as an acute-phase reactant.  The specific function of this protein has not yet been determined; however, it may be involved in aspects of immunosuppression.
ORM2	This gene encodes a key acute phase plasma protein.  Because of its increase due to acute inflammation, this protein is classified as an acute-phase reactant.  The specific function of this protein has not yet been determined; however, it may be involved in aspects of immunosuppression.
OTC	This nuclear gene encodes a mitochondrial matrix enzyme. Missense, nonsense, and frameshift mutations in this enzyme lead to ornithine transcarbamylase deficiency, which causes hyperammonemia. Since the gene for this enzyme maps close to that for Duchenne muscular dystrophy, it may play a role in that disease also.
OXER1	Receptor for eicosanoids and polyunsaturated fatty acids such as 5-oxo-6E,8Z,11Z,14Z-eicosatetraenoic acid (5-OXO-ETE), 5(S)-hydroperoxy-6E,8Z,11Z,14Z-eicosatetraenoic acid (5(S)-HPETE) and arachidonic acid. Seems to be coupled to the G(i)/G(o), families of heteromeric G proteins.
OXGR1	This gene encodes a G protein-coupled receptor (GPCR) that belongs to the oxoglutarate receptor family within the GPCR superfamily. The encoded protein is activated by the citric acid intermediate, oxoglutarate, as well as several cysteinyl leukotrienes, including leukotrienes E4, C4 and D4, which are implicated in many inflammatory disorders. In mice, a knock-out of this gene leads to middle ear inflammation, changes in the mucosal epithelium, and an increase in fluid behind the eardrum, and is associated with hearing loss. Alternative splicing results in multiple transcript variants.
OXSR1	The product of this gene belongs to the Ser/Thr protein kinase family of proteins. It regulates downstream kinases in response to environmental stress, and may play a role in regulating the actin cytoskeleton.
OXTR	The protein encoded by this gene belongs to the G-protein coupled receptor family and acts as a receptor for oxytocin. Its activity is mediated by G proteins which activate a phosphatidylinositol-calcium second messenger system. The oxytocin-oxytocin receptor system plays an important role in the uterus during parturition.
P2RX1	The protein encoded by this gene belongs to the P2X family of G-protein-coupled receptors. These proteins can form homo-and heterotimers and function as ATP-gated ion channels and mediate rapid and selective permeability to cations. This protein is primarily localized to smooth muscle where binds ATP and mediates synaptic transmission between neurons and from neurons to smooth muscle and may being responsible for sympathetic vasoconstriction in small arteries, arterioles and vas deferens. Mouse studies suggest that this receptor is essential for normal male reproductive function. This protein may also be involved in promoting apoptosis.
P2RX2	The product of this gene belongs to the family of purinoceptors for ATP. This receptor functions as a ligand-gated ion channel. Binding to ATP mediates synaptic transmission between neurons and from neurons to smooth muscle. Multiple transcript variants encoding distinct isoforms have been identified for this gene.
P2RX3	This gene encodes a member of the P2X purinergic receptor (purinoceptor) gene family which includes seven members (P2RX1
P2RX4	The product of this gene belongs to the family of purinoceptors for ATP. This receptor functions as a ligand-gated ion channel with high calcium permeability. The main pharmacological distinction between the members of the purinoceptor family is the relative sensitivity to the antagonists suramin and PPADS. The product of this gene has the lowest sensitivity for these antagonists. Multiple alternatively spliced transcript variants, some protein-coding and some not protein-coding, have been found for this gene.
P2RX5	The product of this gene belongs to the family of purinoceptors for ATP. This receptor functions as a ligand-gated ion channel. Alternative splicing results in multiple transcript variants. Read-through transcription also exists between this gene and the neighboring downstream gene, TAX1BP3 (Tax1 binding protein 3).
P2RX6	The protein encoded by this gene belongs to the family of P2X receptors, which are ATP-gated ion channels and mediate rapid and selective permeability to cations. This gene is predominantly expressed in skeletal muscle, and regulated by p53. The encoded protein is associated with VE-cadherin at the adherens junctions of human umbilical vein endothelial cells. Alternative splicing results in multiple transcript variants. A related pseudogene, which is also located on chromosome 22, has been identified.
P2RX7	The product of this gene belongs to the family of purinoceptors for ATP. This receptor functions as a ligand-gated ion channel and is responsible for ATP-dependent lysis of macrophages through the formation of membrane pores permeable to large molecules. Activation of this nuclear receptor by ATP in the cytoplasm may be a mechanism by which cellular activity can be coupled to changes in gene expression. Multiple alternatively spliced variants have been identified, most of which fit nonsense-mediated decay (NMD) criteria.
P2RY1	The product of this gene belongs to the family of G-protein coupled receptors. This family has several receptor subtypes with different pharmacological selectivity, which overlaps in some cases, for various adenosine and uridine nucleotides. This receptor functions as a receptor for extracellular ATP and ADP. In platelets binding to ADP leads to mobilization of intracellular calcium ions via activation of phospholipase C, a change in platelet shape, and probably to platelet aggregation.
P2RY10	The protein encoded by this gene belongs to the family of G-protein coupled receptors that are preferentially activated by adenosine and uridine nucleotides. There is a pseudogene for this gene nearby on chromosome X. Multiple alternatively spliced transcripts have been observed.
P2RY11	The product of this gene belongs to the family of G-protein coupled receptors. This family has several receptor subtypes with different pharmacological selectivity, which overlaps in some cases, for various adenosine and uridine nucleotides. This receptor is coupled to the stimulation of the phosphoinositide and adenylyl cyclase pathways and behaves as a selective purinoceptor. Naturally occuring read-through transcripts, resulting from intergenic splicing between this gene and an immediately upstream gene (PPAN, encoding peter pan homolog), have been found. The PPAN-P2RY11 read-through mRNA is ubiquitously expressed and encodes a fusion protein that shares identity with each individual gene product.
P2RY12	The product of this gene belongs to the family of G-protein coupled receptors. This family has several receptor subtypes with different pharmacological selectivity, which overlaps in some cases, for various adenosine and uridine nucleotides. This receptor is involved in platelet aggregation, and is a potential target for the treatment of thromboembolisms and other clotting disorders. Mutations in this gene are implicated in bleeding disorder, platelet type 8 (BDPLT8). Alternative splicing results in multiple transcript variants of this gene.
P2RY13	The product of this gene belongs to the family of G-protein coupled receptors. This family has several receptor subtypes with different pharmacological selectivity, which overlaps in some cases, for various adenosine and uridine nucleotides. This receptor is activated by ADP.
P2RY14	The product of this gene belongs to the family of G-protein coupled receptors, which contains several receptor subtypes with different pharmacological selectivity for various adenosine and uridine nucleotides. This receptor is a P2Y purinergic receptor for UDP-glucose and other UDP-sugars coupled to G-proteins. It has been implicated in extending the known immune system functions of P2Y receptors by participating in the regulation of the stem cell compartment, and it may also play a role in neuroimmune function. Two transcript variants encoding the same protein have been identified for this gene.
P2RY2	The product of this gene belongs to the family of P2 receptors, which is activated by extracellular nucleotides and subdivided into P2X ligand-gated ion channels and P2Y G-protein coupled receptors. This family has several receptor subtypes with different pharmacological selectivity, which overlaps in some cases, for various adenosine and uridine nucleotides. This receptor, found on many cell types, is activated by ATP and UTP and is reported to be overexpressed on some cancer cell types. It is involved in many cellular functions, such as proliferation, apoptosis and inflammation. Three transcript variants encoding the same protein have been identified for this gene.
P2RY4	The product of this gene belongs to the family of G-protein coupled receptors. This family has several receptor subtypes with different pharmacological selectivity, which overlaps in some cases, for various adenosine and uridine nucleotides. This receptor is responsive to uridine nucleotides, partially responsive to ATP, and not responsive to ADP.
P2RY6	The product of this gene belongs to the family of P2 receptors, which is activated by extracellular nucleotides and subdivided into P2X ligand-gated ion channels and P2Y G-protein coupled receptors. This family has several receptor subtypes with different pharmacological selectivity, which overlaps in some cases, for various adenosine and uridine nucleotides. This receptor, which is a G-protein coupled receptor, is responsive to UDP, partially responsive to UTP and ADP, and not responsive to ATP. It is proposed that this receptor mediates inflammatory responses. Alternative splicing results in multiple transcript variants that encode different protein isoforms.
P4HA1	This gene encodes a component of prolyl 4-hydroxylase, a key enzyme in collagen synthesis composed of two identical alpha subunits and two beta subunits. The encoded protein is one of several different types of alpha subunits and provides the major part of the catalytic site of the active enzyme. In collagen and related proteins, prolyl 4-hydroxylase catalyzes the formation of 4-hydroxyproline that is essential to the proper three-dimensional folding of newly synthesized procollagen chains. Alternatively spliced transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been described.
P4HA2	This gene encodes a component of prolyl 4-hydroxylase, a key enzyme in collagen synthesis composed of two identical alpha subunits and two beta subunits. The encoded protein is one of several different types of alpha subunits and provides the major part of the catalytic site of the active enzyme. In collagen and related proteins, prolyl 4-hydroxylase catalyzes the formation of 4-hydroxyproline that is essential to the proper three-dimensional folding of newly synthesized procollagen chains. Alternatively spliced transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been described.
P4HB	This gene encodes the beta subunit of prolyl 4-hydroxylase, a highly abundant multifunctional enzyme that belongs to the protein disulfide isomerase family. When present as a tetramer consisting of two alpha and two beta subunits, this enzyme is involved in hydroxylation of prolyl residues in preprocollagen. This enzyme is also a disulfide isomerase containing two thioredoxin domains that catalyze the formation, breakage and rearrangement of disulfide bonds. Other known functions include its ability to act as a chaperone that inhibits aggregation of misfolded proteins in a concentration-dependent manner, its ability to bind thyroid hormone, its role in both the influx and efflux of S-nitrosothiol-bound nitric oxide, and its function as a subunit of the microsomal triglyceride transfer protein complex.
P4HTM	The product of this gene belongs to the family of prolyl 4-hydroxylases. This protein is a prolyl hydroxylase that may be involved in the degradation of hypoxia-inducible transcription factors under normoxia. It plays a role in adaptation to hypoxia and may be related to cellular oxygen sensing. Alternatively spliced variants encoding different isoforms have been identified.
PABPC1	This gene encodes a poly(A) binding protein. The protein shuttles between the nucleus and cytoplasm and binds to the 3' poly(A) tail of eukaryotic messenger RNAs via RNA-recognition motifs. The binding of this protein to poly(A) promotes ribosome recruitment and translation initiation; it is also required for poly(A) shortening which is the first step in mRNA decay. The gene is part of a small gene family including three protein-coding genes and several pseudogenes.
PABPC4	Poly(A)-binding proteins (PABPs) bind to the poly(A) tail present at the 3-prime ends of most eukaryotic mRNAs. PABPC4 or IPABP (inducible PABP) was isolated as an activation-induced T-cell mRNA encoding a protein. Activation of T cells increased PABPC4 mRNA levels in T cells approximately 5-fold. PABPC4 contains 4 RNA-binding domains and proline-rich C terminus. PABPC4 is localized primarily to the cytoplasm. It is suggested that PABPC4 might be necessary for regulation of stability of labile mRNA species in activated T cells. PABPC4 was also identified as an antigen, APP1 (activated-platelet protein-1), expressed on thrombin-activated rabbit platelets. PABPC4 may also be involved in the regulation of protein translation in platelets and megakaryocytes or may participate in the binding or stabilization of polyadenylates in platelet dense granules. Alternatively spliced transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been found for this gene.
PADI1	This gene encodes a member of the peptidyl arginine deiminase family of enzymes, which catalyze the post-translational deimination of proteins by converting arginine residues into citrullines in the presence of calcium ions. The family members have distinct substrate specificities and tissue-specific expression patterns. The type I enzyme is involved in the late stages of epidermal differentiation, where it deiminates filaggrin and keratin K1, which maintains hydration of the stratum corneum, and hence the cutaneous barrier function. This enzyme may also play a role in hair follicle formation. This gene exists in a cluster with four other paralogous genes.
PADI2	This gene encodes a member of the peptidyl arginine deiminase family of enzymes, which catalyze the post-translational deimination of proteins by converting arginine residues into citrullines in the presence of calcium ions. The family members have distinct substrate specificities and tissue-specific expression patterns. The type II enzyme is the most widely expressed family member. Known substrates for this enzyme include myelin basic protein in the central nervous system and vimentin in skeletal muscle and macrophages. This enzyme is thought to play a role in the onset and progression of neurodegenerative human disorders, including Alzheimer disease and multiple sclerosis, and it has also been implicated in glaucoma pathogenesis. This gene exists in a cluster with four other paralogous genes.
PADI3	This gene encodes a member of the peptidyl arginine deiminase family of enzymes, which catalyze the post-translational deimination of proteins by converting arginine residues into citrullines in the presence of calcium ions. The family members have distinct substrate specificities and tissue-specific expression patterns. The type III enzyme modulates hair structural proteins, such as filaggrin in the hair follicle and trichohyalin in the inner root sheath, during hair follicle formation. Together with the type I enzyme, this enzyme may also play a role in terminal differentiation of the epidermis. This gene exists in a cluster with four other paralogous genes.
PADI4	This gene is a member of a gene family which encodes enzymes responsible for the conversion of arginine residues to citrulline residues. This gene may play a role in granulocyte and macrophage development leading to inflammation and immune response.
PAFAH1B2	Platelet-activating factor acetylhydrolase (PAFAH) inactivates platelet-activating factor (PAF) into acetate and LYSO-PAF. This gene encodes the beta subunit of PAFAH, the other subunits are alpha and gamma. Multiple alternatively spliced transcript variants have been described for this gene.
PAFAH1B3	This gene encodes an acetylhydrolase that catalyzes the removal of an acetyl group from the glycerol backbone of platelet-activating factor. The encoded enzyme is a subunit of the platelet-activating factor acetylhydrolase isoform 1B complex, which consists of the catalytic beta and gamma subunits and the regulatory alpha subunit. This complex functions in brain development. A translocation between this gene on chromosome 19 and the CDC-like kinase 2 gene on chromosome 1 has been observed, and was associated with cognitive disability, ataxia, and atrophy of the brain. Alternatively spliced transcript variants have been described.
PAH	This gene encodes a member of the biopterin-dependent aromatic amino acid hydroxylase protein family. The encoded phenylalanine hydroxylase enzyme hydroxylates phenylalanine to tyrosine and is the rate-limiting step in phenylalanine catabolism. Deficiency of this enzyme activity results in the autosomal recessive disorder phenylketonuria.
PAICS	This gene encodes a bifunctional enzyme containing phosphoribosylaminoimidazole carboxylase activity in its N-terminal region and phosphoribosylaminoimidazole succinocarboxamide synthetase in its C-terminal region. It catalyzes steps 6 and 7 of purine biosynthesis. The gene is closely linked and divergently transcribed with a locus that encodes an enzyme in the same pathway, and transcription of the two genes is coordinately regulated. The human genome contains several pseudogenes of this gene. Multiple transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been found for this gene.
PAK1	This gene encodes a family member of serine/threonine p21-activating kinases, known as PAK proteins. These proteins are critical effectors that link RhoGTPases to cytoskeleton reorganization and nuclear signaling, and they serve as targets for the small GTP binding proteins Cdc42 and Rac. This specific family member regulates cell motility and morphology. Alternatively spliced transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been found for this gene.
PAK2	The p21 activated kinases (PAK) are critical effectors that link Rho GTPases to cytoskeleton reorganization and nuclear signaling. The PAK proteins are a family of serine/threonine kinases that serve as targets for the small GTP binding proteins, CDC42 and RAC1, and have been implicated in a wide range of biological activities. The protein encoded by this gene is activated by proteolytic cleavage during caspase-mediated apoptosis, and may play a role in regulating the apoptotic events in the dying cell.
PAK3	The protein encoded by this gene is a serine-threonine kinase and forms an activated complex with GTP-bound RAS-like (P21), CDC2 and RAC1. This protein may be necessary for dendritic development and for the rapid cytoskeletal reorganization in dendritic spines associated with synaptic plasticity. Defects in this gene are the cause of a non-syndromic form of X-linked intellectual disability. Alternatively spliced transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been identified.
PAK4	PAK proteins, a family of serine/threonine p21-activating kinases, include PAK1, PAK2, PAK3 and PAK4. PAK proteins are critical effectors that link Rho GTPases to cytoskeleton reorganization and nuclear signaling. They serve as targets for the small GTP binding proteins Cdc42 and Rac and have been implicated in a wide range of biological activities. PAK4 interacts specifically with the GTP-bound form of Cdc42Hs and weakly activates the JNK family of MAP kinases. PAK4 is a mediator of filopodia formation and may play a role in the reorganization of the actin cytoskeleton. Multiple alternatively spliced transcript variants encoding distinct isoforms have been found for this gene.
PAK6	This gene encodes a member of a family of p21-stimulated serine/threonine protein kinases, which contain an amino-terminal Cdc42/Rac interactive binding (CRIB) domain and a carboxyl-terminal kinase domain. These kinases function in a number of cellular processes, including cytoskeleton rearrangement, apoptosis, and the mitogen-activated protein (MAP) kinase signaling pathway. The protein encoded by this gene interacts with androgen receptor (AR) and translocates to the nucleus, where it is involved in transcriptional regulation. Changes in expression of this gene have been linked to prostate cancer. Alternative splicing results in multiple transcript variants.
PAM	This gene encodes a multifunctional protein. The encoded preproprotein is proteolytically processed to generate the mature enzyme. This enzyme includes two domains with distinct catalytic activities, a peptidylglycine alpha-hydroxylating monooxygenase (PHM) domain and a peptidyl-alpha-hydroxyglycine alpha-amidating lyase (PAL) domain. These catalytic domains work sequentially to catalyze the conversion of neuroendocrine peptides to active alpha-amidated products. Alternative splicing results in multiple transcript variants, at least one of which encodes an isoform that is proteolytically processed.
PANK1	This gene encodes a member of the pantothenate kinase family. Pantothenate kinases are key regulatory enzymes in the biosynthesis of coenzyme A (CoA). The encoded protein catalyzes the first and rate-limiting enzymatic reaction in CoA biosynthesis and is regulated by CoA through feedback inhibition. Alternatively spliced transcript variants encoding multiple isoforms have been observed for this gene. This gene and an intronic miRNA on the same strand are co-regulated by the tumor suppressor p53 (see PMID 20833636).
PANK2	This gene encodes a protein belonging to the pantothenate kinase family and is the only member of that family to be expressed in mitochondria. Pantothenate kinase is a key regulatory enzyme in the biosynthesis of coenzyme A (CoA) in bacteria and mammalian cells. It catalyzes the first committed step in the universal biosynthetic pathway leading to CoA and is itself subject to regulation through feedback inhibition by acyl CoA species. Mutations in this gene are associated with HARP syndrome and pantothenate kinase-associated neurodegeneration (PKAN), formerly Hallervorden-Spatz syndrome. Alternative splicing, involving the use of alternate first exons, results in multiple transcripts encoding different isoforms.
PANK3	This gene encodes a protein belonging to the pantothenate kinase family. Pantothenate kinase is a key regulatory enzyme in the biosynthesis of coenzyme A (CoA) in bacteria and mammalian cells. It catalyzes the first committed step in the universal biosynthetic pathway leading to CoA and is itself subject to regulation through feedback inhibition by CoA. This family member is expressed most abundantly in the liver.
PANX1	The protein encoded by this gene belongs to the innexin family. Innexin family members are the structural components of gap junctions. This protein and pannexin 2 are abundantly expressed in central nerve system (CNS) and are coexpressed in various neuronal populations. Studies in Xenopus oocytes suggest that this protein alone and in combination with pannexin 2 may form cell type-specific gap junctions with distinct properties.
PAOX	Flavoenzyme which catalyzes the oxidation of N(1)-acetylspermine to spermidine and is thus involved in the polyamine back-conversion .
PARG	Poly(ADP-ribose) glycohydrolase (PARG) is the major enzyme responsible for the catabolism of poly(ADP-ribose), a reversible covalent-modifier of chromosomal proteins. The protein is found in many tissues and may be subject to proteolysis generating smaller, active products. Several transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been found for this gene.
PARN	The protein encoded by this gene is a 3'-exoribonuclease, with similarity to the RNase D family of 3'-exonucleases. It prefers poly(A) as the substrate, hence, efficiently degrades poly(A) tails of mRNAs. Exonucleolytic degradation of the poly(A) tail is often the first step in the decay of eukaryotic mRNAs. This protein is also involved in silencing of certain maternal mRNAs during oocyte maturation and early embryonic development, as well as in nonsense-mediated decay (NMD) of mRNAs that contain premature stop codons. Alternatively spliced transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been found for this gene.
PARP1	This gene encodes a chromatin-associated enzyme, poly(ADP-ribosyl)transferase, which modifies various nuclear proteins by poly(ADP-ribosyl)ation. The modification is dependent on DNA and is involved in the regulation of various important cellular processes such as differentiation, proliferation, and tumor transformation and also in the regulation of the molecular events involved in the recovery of cell from DNA damage. In addition, this enzyme may be the site of mutation in Fanconi anemia, and may participate in the pathophysiology of type I diabetes.
PARP10	Poly(ADP-ribose) polymerases (PARPs), such as PARP10, regulate gene transcription by altering chromatin organization by adding ADP-ribose to histones. PARPs can also function as transcriptional cofactors (Yu et al., 2005
PARP11	Mono-ADP-ribosyltransferase that mediates mono-ADP-ribosylation of target proteins .
PARP14	This gene encodes a member of the poly(ADP-ribose) polymerase (PARP) protein family. The encoded anti-apoptotic protein may regulate aerobic glycolysis and promote survival of cancer cells. Increased expression of this gene has been reported in a variety of tumor types.
PARP15	PARP15 is a macrodomain-containing transcriptional repressor with poly(ADP-ribose) polymerase activity (Aguiar et al., 2005
PARP2	This gene encodes poly(ADP-ribosyl)transferase-like 2 protein, which contains a catalytic domain and is capable of catalyzing a poly(ADP-ribosyl)ation reaction. This protein has a catalytic domain which is homologous to that of poly (ADP-ribosyl) transferase, but lacks an N-terminal DNA binding domain which activates the C-terminal catalytic domain of poly (ADP-ribosyl) transferase. The basic residues within the N-terminal region of this protein may bear potential DNA-binding properties, and may be involved in the nuclear and/or nucleolar targeting of the protein. Two alternatively spliced transcript variants encoding distinct isoforms have been found.
PARP3	The protein encoded by this gene belongs to the PARP family. These enzymes modify nuclear proteins by poly-ADP-ribosylation, which is required for DNA repair, regulation of apoptosis, and maintenance of genomic stability. This gene encodes the poly(ADP-ribosyl)transferase 3, which is preferentially localized to the daughter centriole throughout the cell cycle. Alternatively spliced transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been identified.
PARP4	This gene encodes poly(ADP-ribosyl)transferase-like 1 protein, which is capable of catalyzing a poly(ADP-ribosyl)ation reaction. This protein has a catalytic domain which is homologous to that of poly (ADP-ribosyl) transferase, but lacks an N-terminal DNA binding domain which activates the C-terminal catalytic domain of poly (ADP-ribosyl) transferase. Since this protein is not capable of binding DNA directly, its transferase activity may be activated by other factors such as protein-protein interaction mediated by the extensive carboxyl terminus.
PARVG	Members of the parvin family, including PARVG, are actin-binding proteins associated with focal contacts.
PASK	This gene encodes a member of the serine/threonine kinase family that contains two PAS domains. Expression of this gene is regulated by glucose, and the encoded protein plays a role in the regulation of insulin gene expression. Downregulation of this gene may play a role in type 2 diabetes. Alternatively spliced transcript variants encoding multiple isoforms have been observed for this gene.
PAX8	This gene encodes a member of the paired box (PAX) family of transcription factors. Members of this gene family typically encode proteins that contain a paired box domain, an octapeptide, and a paired-type homeodomain. This nuclear protein is involved in thyroid follicular cell development and expression of thyroid-specific genes. Mutations in this gene have been associated with thyroid dysgenesis, thyroid follicular carcinomas and atypical follicular thyroid adenomas. Alternatively spliced transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been described.
PBK	This gene encodes a serine/threonine protein kinase related to the dual specific mitogen-activated protein kinase kinase (MAPKK) family. Evidence suggests that mitotic phosphorylation is required for its catalytic activity. The encoded protein may be involved in the activation of lymphoid cells and support testicular functions, with a suggested role in the process of spermatogenesis. Overexpression of this gene has been implicated in tumorigenesis. Alternative splicing results in multiple transcript variants.
PBRM1	This locus encodes a subunit of ATP-dependent chromatin-remodeling complexes. The encoded protein has been identified as in integral component of complexes necessary for ligand-dependent transcriptional activation by nuclear hormone receptors. Mutations at this locus have been associated with primary clear cell renal cell carcinoma.
PCDH15	This gene is a member of the cadherin superfamily. Family members encode integral membrane proteins that mediate calcium-dependent cell-cell adhesion. It plays an essential role in maintenance of normal retinal and cochlear function. Mutations in this gene result in hearing loss and Usher Syndrome Type IF (USH1F). Extensive alternative splicing resulting in multiple isoforms has been observed in the mouse ortholog. Similar alternatively spliced transcripts are inferred to occur in human, and additional variants are likely to occur.
PCK1	This gene is a main control point for the regulation of gluconeogenesis. The cytosolic enzyme encoded by this gene, along with GTP, catalyzes the formation of phosphoenolpyruvate from oxaloacetate, with the release of carbon dioxide and GDP. The expression of this gene can be regulated by insulin, glucocorticoids, glucagon, cAMP, and diet. Defects in this gene are a cause of cytosolic phosphoenolpyruvate carboxykinase deficiency. A mitochondrial isozyme of the encoded protein also has been characterized.
PCMT1	This gene encodes a member of the type II class of protein carboxyl methyltransferase enzymes. The encoded enzyme plays a role in protein repair by recognizing and converting D-aspartyl and L-isoaspartyl residues resulting from spontaneous deamidation back to the normal L-aspartyl form. The encoded protein may play a protective role in the pathogenesis of Alzheimer's disease, and single nucleotide polymorphisms in this gene have been associated with spina bifida and premature ovarian failure. Alternatively spliced transcript variants encoding multiple isoforms have been observed for this gene.
PCNA	The protein encoded by this gene is found in the nucleus and is a cofactor of DNA polymerase delta. The encoded protein acts as a homotrimer and helps increase the processivity of leading strand synthesis during DNA replication. In response to DNA damage, this protein is ubiquitinated and is involved in the RAD6-dependent DNA repair pathway. Two transcript variants encoding the same protein have been found for this gene. Pseudogenes of this gene have been described on chromosome 4 and on the X chromosome.
PCSK1	This gene encodes a member of the subtilisin-like proprotein convertase family, which includes proteases that process protein and peptide precursors trafficking through regulated or constitutive branches of the secretory pathway. The encoded protein undergoes an initial autocatalytic processing event in the ER to generate a heterodimer which exits the ER and sorts to subcellular compartments where a second autocatalytic even takes place and the catalytic activity is acquired. The protease is packaged into and activated in dense core secretory granules and expressed in the neuroendocrine system and brain. This gene encodes one of the seven basic amino acid-specific members which cleave their substrates at single or paired basic residues. It functions in the proteolytic activation of polypeptide hormones and neuropeptides precursors. Mutations in this gene have been associated with susceptibility to obesity and proprotein convertase 1/3 deficiency. Alternatively spliced transcript variants encoding multiple isoforms have been observed for this gene
PCSK2	This gene encodes a member of the subtilisin-like proprotein convertase family, which includes proteases that process protein and peptide precursors trafficking through regulated or constitutive branches of the secretory pathway. The protein undergoes an initial autocatalytic processing event and interacts with a neuroendocrine secretory protein in the ER, exits the ER and sorts to secretory granules, where it is cleaved and catalytically activated during intracellular transport. The encoded protease is packaged into and activated in dense core secretory granules and expressed in the neuroendocrine system and brain. This gene encodes one of the seven basic amino acid-specific members which cleave their substrates at single or paired basic residues. It functions in the proteolytic activation of polypeptide hormones and neuropeptides precursors. Single nucleotide polymorphisms in this gene may increase susceptibility to myocardial infarction and type 2 diabetes. This gene may also play a role in tumor development and progression. Alternatively spliced transcript variants encoding multiple isoforms have been observed for this gene.
PCSK4	This gene encodes a member of the subtilisin-like proprotein convertase family, which includes proteases that process protein and peptide precursors trafficking through regulated or constitutive branches of the secretory pathway. The encoded protein undergoes an initial autocatalytic processing event in the ER to generate a heterodimer which exits the ER and sorts to subcellular compartments where a second autocatalytic even takes place and the catalytic activity is acquired. This gene encodes one of the seven basic amino acid-specific members which cleave their substrates at single or paired basic residues. The protease is expressed only in the testis, placenta, and ovary. It plays a critical role in fertilization, fetoplacental growth, and embryonic development and processes multiple prohormones including pro-pituitary adenylate cyclase-activating protein and pro-insulin-like growth factor II.
PCSK5	This gene encodes a member of the subtilisin-like proprotein convertase family, which includes proteases that process protein and peptide precursors trafficking through regulated or constitutive branches of the secretory pathway. The encoded protein undergoes an initial autocatalytic processing event in the ER to generate a heterodimer which exits the ER. It then sorts to the trans-Golgi network where a second autocatalytic event takes place and the catalytic activity is acquired. This encoded protein is widely expressed and one of the seven basic amino acid-specific members which cleave their substrates at single or paired basic residues. It mediates posttranslational endoproteolytic processing for several integrin alpha subunits and is thought to process prorenin, pro-membrane type-1 matrix metalloproteinase and HIV-1 glycoprotein gp160. Alternative splicing results in multiple transcript variants, some of which encode distinct isoforms, including a protease packaged into dense core granules (PC5A) and a type 1 membrane bound protease (PC5B).
PCSK6	This gene encodes a member of the subtilisin-like proprotein convertase family, which includes proteases that process protein and peptide precursors trafficking through regulated or constitutive branches of the secretory pathway. The encoded protein undergoes an initial autocatalytic processing event in the ER to generate a heterodimer which exits the ER and sorts to the trans-Golgi network where a second autocatalytic event takes place and the catalytic activity is acquired. The encoded protease is constitutively secreted into the extracellular matrix and expressed in many tissues, including neuroendocrine, liver, gut, and brain. This gene encodes one of the seven basic amino acid-specific members which cleave their substrates at single or paired basic residues. Some of its substrates include transforming growth factor beta related proteins, proalbumin, and von Willebrand factor. This gene is thought to play a role in tumor progression and left-right patterning. Alternatively spliced transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been identified.
PCSK7	This gene encodes a member of the subtilisin-like proprotein convertase family, which includes proteases that process protein and peptide precursors trafficking through regulated or constitutive branches of the secretory pathway. It encodes a type 1 membrane bound protease that is expressed in many tissues, including neuroendocrine, liver, gut, and brain. The encoded protein undergoes an initial autocatalytic processing event in the ER and then sorts to the trans-Golgi network through endosomes where a second autocatalytic event takes place and the catalytic activity is acquired. This gene encodes one of the seven basic amino acid-specific members which cleave their substrates at single or paired basic residues. It can process proalbumin and is thought to be responsible for the activation of HIV envelope glycoproteins gp160 and gp140. This gene has been implicated in the transcriptional regulation of housekeeping genes and plays a role in the regulation of iron metabolism. A t(11;14)(q23;q32) chromosome translocation associated with B-cell lymphoma occurs between this gene and its inverted counterpart.
PCSK9	This gene encodes a member of the subtilisin-like proprotein convertase family, which includes proteases that process protein and peptide precursors trafficking through regulated or constitutive branches of the secretory pathway. The encoded protein undergoes an autocatalytic processing event with its prosegment in the ER and is constitutively secreted as an inactive protease into the extracellular matrix and trans-Golgi network. It is expressed in liver, intestine and kidney tissues and escorts specific receptors for lysosomal degradation. It plays a role in cholesterol and fatty acid metabolism. Mutations in this gene have been associated with autosomal dominant familial hypercholesterolemia. Alternative splicing results in multiple transcript variants.
PDCD1	This gene encodes a cell surface membrane protein of the immunoglobulin superfamily. This protein is expressed in pro-B-cells and is thought to play a role in their differentiation. In mice, expression of this gene is induced in the thymus when anti-CD3 antibodies are injected and large numbers of thymocytes undergo apoptosis. Mice deficient for this gene bred on a BALB/c  background developed dilated cardiomyopathy and died from congestive heart failure. These studies suggest that this gene product may also be important in T cell function and contribute to the prevention of autoimmune diseases.
PDCD1LG2	This gene is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with PDCD1LG2 include Cysticercosis and Central Nervous System Lymphoma. Among its related pathways are CD28 co-stimulation and NF-kappaB Signaling. Involved in negative regulation of activated T cell proliferation; negative regulation of interferon-gamma production; and negative regulation of interleukin-10 production. Predicted to be located in plasma membrane. Predicted to be active in external side of plasma membrane. Biomarker of pulmonary tuberculosis.
PDCD4	This gene is a tumor suppressor and encodes a protein that binds to the eukaryotic translation initiation factor 4A1 and inhibits its function by preventing RNA binding. Alternative splicing results in multiple transcript variants.
PDE10A	The protein encoded by this gene belongs to the cyclic nucleotide phosphodiesterase family. It plays a role in signal transduction by regulating the intracellular concentration of cyclic nucleotides. This protein can hydrolyze both cAMP and cGMP to the corresponding nucleoside 5' monophosphate, but has higher affinity for cAMP, and is more efficient with cAMP as substrate. Alternatively spliced transcript variants have been described for this gene.
PDE11A	The 3',5'-cyclic nucleotides cAMP and cGMP function as second messengers in a wide variety of signal transduction pathways. 3',5'-cyclic nucleotide phosphodiesterases (PDEs) catalyze the hydrolysis of cAMP and cGMP to the corresponding 5'-monophosphates and provide a mechanism to downregulate cAMP and cGMP signaling. This gene encodes a member of the PDE protein superfamily. Mutations in this gene are a cause of Cushing disease and adrenocortical hyperplasia. Multiple transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been found for this gene.
PDE1A	Cyclic nucleotide phosphodiesterases (PDEs) play a role in signal transduction by regulating intracellular cyclic nucleotide concentrations through hydrolysis of cAMP and/or cGMP to their respective nucleoside 5-prime monophosphates. Members of the PDE1 family, such as PDE1A, are Ca(2+)/calmodulin (see CALM1; MIM 114180)-dependent PDEs (CaM-PDEs) that are activated by calmodulin in the presence of Ca(2+) (Michibata et al., 2001
PDE1B	The protein encoded by this gene belongs to the cyclic nucleotide phosphodiesterase (PDE) family, and PDE1 subfamily. Members of the PDE1 family are calmodulin-dependent PDEs that are stimulated by a calcium-calmodulin complex. This PDE has dual-specificity for the second messengers, cAMP and cGMP, with a preference for cGMP as a substrate. cAMP and cGMP function as key regulators of many important physiological processes. Alternatively spliced transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been described for this gene.
PDE1C	This gene encodes an enzyme that belongs to the 3'5'-cyclic nucleotide phosphodiesterase family. Members of this family catalyze hydrolysis of the cyclic nucleotides, cyclic adenosine monophosphate and cyclic guanosine monophosphate, to the corresponding nucleoside 5'-monophosphates. The enzyme encoded by this gene regulates proliferation and migration of vascular smooth muscle cells, and neointimal hyperplasia. This enzyme also plays a role in pathological vascular remodeling by regulating the stability of growth factor receptors, such as PDGF-receptor-beta.
PDE2A	Cyclic nucleotide phosphodiesterase with a dual-specificity for the second messengers cAMP and cGMP, which are key regulators of many important physiological processes. Plays an important role in growth and invasion of malignant melanoma cells (e.g. pseudomyxoma peritonei (PMP) cell line) .
PDE3A	This gene encodes a member of the cGMP-inhibited cyclic nucleotide phosphodiesterase (cGI-PDE) family. cGI-PDE enzymes hydrolyze both cAMP and cGMP, and play critical roles in many cellular processes by regulating the amplitude and duration of intracellular cyclic nucleotide signals. The encoded protein mediates platelet aggregation and also plays important roles in cardiovascular function by regulating vascular smooth muscle contraction and relaxation. Inhibitors of the encoded protein may be effective in treating congestive heart failure. Alternatively spliced transcript variants encoding multiple isoforms have been observed for this gene.
PDE3B	Cyclic nucleotide phosphodiesterase with a dual-specificity for the second messengers cAMP and cGMP, which are key regulators of many important physiological processes. May play a role in fat metabolism. Regulates cAMP binding of RAPGEF3. Through simultaneous binding to RAPGEF3 and PIK3R6 assembles a signaling complex in which the PI3K gamma complex is activated by RAPGEF3 and which is involved in angiogenesis.
PDE4A	The protein encoded by this gene belongs to the cyclic nucleotide phosphodiesterase (PDE) family, and PDE4 subfamily. This PDE hydrolyzes the second messenger, cAMP, which is a regulator and mediator of a number of cellular responses to extracellular signals. Thus, by regulating the cellular concentration of cAMP, this protein plays a key role in many important physiological processes. Alternatively spliced transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been described for this gene.
PDE4B	This gene is a member of the type IV, cyclic AMP (cAMP)-specific, cyclic nucleotide phosphodiesterase (PDE) family. The encoded protein regulates the cellular concentrations of cyclic nucleotides and thereby play a role in signal transduction. Altered activity of this protein has been associated with schizophrenia and bipolar affective disorder. Alternative splicing and the use of alternative promoters results in multiple transcript variants encoding different isoforms.
PDE4C	The protein encoded by this gene belongs to the cyclic nucleotide phosphodiesterase (PDE) family, and PDE4 subfamily. This PDE hydrolyzes the second messenger, cAMP, which is a regulator and mediator of a number of cellular responses to extracellular signals. Thus, by regulating the cellular concentration of cAMP, this protein plays a key role in many important physiological processes. Alternatively spliced transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been described for this gene.
PDE4D	This gene encodes one of four mammalian counterparts to the fruit fly 'dunce' gene. The encoded protein has 3',5'-cyclic-AMP phosphodiesterase activity and degrades cAMP, which acts as a signal transduction molecule in multiple cell types. This gene uses different promoters to generate multiple alternatively spliced transcript variants that encode functional proteins.
PDE5A	This gene encodes a cGMP-binding, cGMP-specific phosphodiesterase, a member of the cyclic nucleotide phosphodiesterase family. This phosphodiesterase specifically hydrolyzes cGMP to 5'-GMP. It is involved in the regulation of intracellular concentrations of cyclic nucleotides and is important for smooth muscle relaxation in the cardiovascular system. Alternative splicing of this gene results in three transcript variants encoding distinct isoforms.
PDE6A	This gene encodes the cyclic-GMP (cGMP)-specific phosphodiesterase 6A alpha subunit, expressed in cells of the retinal rod outer segment. The phosphodiesterase 6 holoenzyme is a heterotrimer composed of an alpha, beta, and two gamma subunits. cGMP is an important regulator of rod cell membrane current, and its dynamic concentration is established by phosphodiesterase 6A cGMP hydrolysis and guanylate cyclase cGMP synthesis. The protein is a subunit of a key phototransduction enzyme and participates in processes of transmission and amplification of the visual signal. Mutations in this gene have been identified as one cause of autosomal recessive retinitis pigmentosa.
PDE6C	This gene encodes the alpha-prime subunit of cone phosphodiesterase, which is composed of a homodimer of two alpha-prime subunits and 3 smaller proteins of 11, 13, and 15 kDa. Mutations in this gene are associated with cone dystrophy type 4 (COD4).
PDE6D	This gene encodes the delta subunit of rod-specific photoreceptor phosphodiesterase (PDE), a key enzyme in the phototransduction cascade. A similar protein in cow functions in solubilizing membrane-bound PDE. In addition to its role in the PDE complex, the encoded protein is thought to bind to prenyl groups of proteins to target them to subcellular organelles called cilia. Mutations in this gene are associated with Joubert syndrome-22. Alternative splicing results in multiple splice variants.
PDE7A	The protein encoded by this gene belongs to the cyclic nucleotide phosphodiesterase (PDE) family, and PDE7 subfamily. This PDE hydrolyzes the second messenger, cAMP, which is a regulator and mediator of a number of cellular responses to extracellular signals. Thus, by regulating the cellular concentration of cAMP, this protein plays a key role in many important physiological processes. Alternatively spliced transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been described for this gene.
PDE7B	The 3',5'-cyclic nucleotides cAMP and cGMP function as second messengers in a wide variety of signal transduction pathways. 3',5'-cyclic nucleotide phosphodiesterases (PDEs) catalyze the hydrolysis of cAMP and cGMP to the corresponding 5'-monophosphates and provide a mechanism to downregulate cAMP and cGMP signaling. This gene encodes a cAMP-specific phosphodiesterase, a member of the cyclic nucleotide phosphodiesterase family.
PDE8A	The protein encoded by this gene belongs to the cyclic nucleotide phosphodiesterase (PDE) family, and PDE8 subfamily. This PDE hydrolyzes the second messenger, cAMP, which is a regulator and mediator of a number of cellular responses to extracellular signals. Thus, by regulating the cellular concentration of cAMP, this protein plays a key role in many important physiological processes. Alternatively spliced transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been found for this gene.
PDE8B	The protein encoded by this gene is a cyclic nucleotide phosphodiesterase (PDE) that catalyzes the hydrolysis of the second messenger cAMP. The encoded protein, which does not hydrolyze cGMP, is resistant to several PDE inhibitors. Defects in this gene are a cause of autosomal dominant striatal degeneration (ADSD). Several transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been found for this gene.
PDE9A	The protein encoded by this gene catalyzes the hydrolysis of cAMP and cGMP to their corresponding monophosphates. The encoded protein plays a role in signal transduction by regulating the intracellular concentration of these cyclic nucleotides. Multiple transcript variants encoding several different isoforms have been found for this gene.
PDF	Protein synthesis proceeds after formylation of methionine by methionyl-tRNA formyl transferase (FMT) and transfer of the charged initiator f-met tRNA to the ribosome. In eubacteria and eukaryotic organelles the product of this gene, peptide deformylase (PDF), removes the formyl group from the initiating methionine of nascent peptides. In eubacteria, deformylation of nascent peptides is required for subsequent cleavage of initiating methionines by methionine aminopeptidase. The discovery that a natural inhibitor of PDF, actinonin, acts as an antimicrobial agent in some bacteria has spurred intensive research into the design of bacterial-specific PDF inhibitors. In human cells, only mitochondrial proteins have N-formylation of initiating methionines. Protein inhibitors of PDF or siRNAs of PDF block the growth of cancer cell lines but have no effect on normal cell growth. In humans, PDF function may therefore be restricted to rapidly growing cells.
PDGFA	This gene encodes a member of the protein family comprised of both platelet-derived growth factors (PDGF) and vascular endothelial growth factors (VEGF). The encoded preproprotein is proteolytically processed to generate platelet-derived growth factor subunit A, which can homodimerize, or alternatively, heterodimerize with the related platelet-derived growth factor subunit B. These proteins bind and activate PDGF receptor tyrosine kinases, which play a role in a wide range of developmental processes. Alternative splicing results in multiple transcript variants.
PDGFB	This gene encodes a member of the protein family comprised of both platelet-derived growth factors (PDGF) and vascular endothelial growth factors (VEGF). The encoded preproprotein is proteolytically processed to generate platelet-derived growth factor subunit B, which can homodimerize, or alternatively, heterodimerize with the related platelet-derived growth factor subunit A. These proteins bind and activate PDGF receptor tyrosine kinases, which play a role in a wide range of developmental processes. Mutations in this gene are associated with meningioma. Reciprocal translocations between chromosomes 22 and 17, at sites where this gene and that for collagen type 1, alpha 1 are located, are associated with dermatofibrosarcoma protuberans, a rare skin tumor. Alternative splicing results in multiple transcript variants.
PDGFRA	This gene encodes a cell surface tyrosine kinase receptor for members of the platelet-derived growth factor family. These growth factors are mitogens for cells of mesenchymal origin. The identity of the growth factor bound to a receptor monomer determines whether the functional receptor is a homodimer or a heterodimer, composed of both platelet-derived growth factor receptor alpha and beta polypeptides. Studies suggest that this gene plays a role in organ development, wound healing, and tumor progression. Mutations in this gene have been associated with idiopathic hypereosinophilic syndrome, somatic and familial gastrointestinal stromal tumors, and a variety of other cancers.
PDGFRB	The protein encoded by this gene is a cell surface tyrosine kinase receptor for members of the platelet-derived growth factor family. These growth factors are mitogens for cells of mesenchymal origin. The identity of the growth factor bound to a receptor monomer determines whether the functional receptor is a homodimer (PDGFB or PDGFD) or a heterodimer (PDGFA and PDGFB). This gene is essential for normal development of the cardiovascular system and aids in rearrangement of the actin cytoskeleton. This gene is flanked on chromosome 5 by the genes for granulocyte-macrophage colony-stimulating factor and macrophage-colony stimulating factor receptor; all three genes may be implicated in the 5-q syndrome. A translocation between chromosomes 5 and 12, that fuses this gene to that of the ETV6 gene, results in chronic myeloproliferative disorder with eosinophilia.
PDIA6	This gene encodes a member of the disulfide isomerase (PDI) family of endoplasmic reticulum (ER) proteins that catalyze protein folding and thiol-disulfide interchange reactions. The encoded protein has an N-terminal ER-signal sequence, two catalytically active thioredoxin (TRX) domains, a TRX-like domain, and a C-terminal ER-retention sequence. This protein inhibits the aggregation of misfolded proteins and exhibits both isomerase and chaperone activity. Alternative splicing results in multiple transcript variants encoding different isoforms.
PDK1	Pyruvate dehydrogenase (PDH) is a mitochondrial multienzyme complex that catalyzes the oxidative decarboxylation of pyruvate and is one of the major enzymes responsible for the regulation of homeostasis of carbohydrate fuels in mammals. The enzymatic activity is regulated by a phosphorylation/dephosphorylation cycle. Phosphorylation of PDH by a specific pyruvate dehydrogenase kinase (PDK) results in inactivation. Multiple alternatively spliced transcript variants have been found for this gene.
PDK2	This gene encodes a member of the pyruvate dehydrogenase kinase family. The encoded protein phosphorylates pyruvate dehydrogenase, down-regulating the activity of the mitochondrial pyruvate dehydrogenase complex. Overexpression of this gene may play a role in both cancer and diabetes. Alternatively spliced transcript variants encoding multiple isoforms have been observed for this gene.
PDK3	The pyruvate dehydrogenase (PDH) complex is a nuclear-encoded mitochondrial multienzyme complex that catalyzes the overall conversion of pyruvate to acetyl-CoA and CO(2). It provides the primary link between glycolysis and the tricarboxylic acid (TCA) cycle, and thus is one of the major enzymes responsible for the regulation of glucose metabolism. The enzymatic activity of PDH is regulated by a phosphorylation/dephosphorylation cycle, and phosphorylation results in inactivation of PDH. The protein encoded by this gene is one of the three pyruvate dehydrogenase kinases that inhibits the PDH complex by phosphorylation of the E1 alpha subunit. This gene is predominantly expressed in the heart and skeletal muscles. Alternatively spliced transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been found for this gene.
PDK4	This gene is a member of the PDK/BCKDK protein kinase family and encodes a mitochondrial protein with a histidine kinase domain. This protein is located in the matrix of the mitrochondria and inhibits the pyruvate dehydrogenase complex by phosphorylating one of its subunits, thereby contributing to the regulation of glucose metabolism. Expression of this gene is regulated by glucocorticoids, retinoic acid and insulin.
PDPK1	Serine/threonine kinase which acts as a master kinase, phosphorylating and activating a subgroup of the AGC family of protein kinases. Its targets include: protein kinase B (PKB/AKT1, PKB/AKT2, PKB/AKT3), p70 ribosomal protein S6 kinase (RPS6KB1), p90 ribosomal protein S6 kinase (RPS6KA1, RPS6KA2 and RPS6KA3), cyclic AMP-dependent protein kinase (PRKACA), protein kinase C (PRKCD and PRKCZ), serum and glucocorticoid-inducible kinase (SGK1, SGK2 and SGK3), p21-activated kinase-1 (PAK1), protein kinase PKN (PKN1 and PKN2). Plays a central role in the transduction of signals from insulin by providing the activating phosphorylation to PKB/AKT1, thus propagating the signal to downstream targets controlling cell proliferation and survival, as well as glucose and amino acid uptake and storage. Negatively regulates the TGF-beta-induced signaling by: modulating the association of SMAD3 and SMAD7 with TGF-beta receptor, phosphorylating SMAD2, SMAD3, SMAD4 and SMAD7, preventing the nuclear translocation of SMAD3 and SMAD4 and the translocation of SMAD7 from the nucleus to the cytoplasm in response to TGF-beta. Activates PPARG transcriptional activity and promotes adipocyte differentiation. Activates the NF-kappa-B pathway via phosphorylation of IKKB. The tyrosine phosphorylated form is crucial for the regulation of focal adhesions by angiotensin II. Controls proliferation, survival, and growth of developing pancreatic cells. Participates in the regulation of Ca(2+) entry and Ca(2+)-activated K(+) channels of mast cells. Essential for the motility of vascular endothelial cells (ECs) and is involved in the regulation of their chemotaxis. Plays a critical role in cardiac homeostasis by serving as a dual effector for cell survival and beta-adrenergic response. Plays an important role during thymocyte development by regulating the expression of key nutrient receptors on the surface of pre-T cells and mediating Notch-induced cell growth and proliferative responses. Provides negative feedback inhibition to toll-like receptor-mediated NF-kappa-B activation in macrophages. Isoform 3 is catalytically inactive.
PDXK	The protein encoded by this gene phosphorylates vitamin B6, a step required for the conversion of vitamin B6 to pyridoxal-5-phosphate, an important cofactor in intermediary metabolism. The encoded protein is cytoplasmic and probably acts as a homodimer. Alternatively spliced transcript variants have been described, but their biological validity has not been determined.
PDYN	The protein encoded by this gene is a preproprotein that is proteolytically processed to form the secreted opioid peptides beta-neoendorphin, dynorphin, leu-enkephalin, rimorphin, and leumorphin. These peptides are ligands for the kappa-type of opioid receptor. Dynorphin is involved in modulating responses to several psychoactive substances, including cocaine. Multiple alternatively spliced transcript variants encoding the same protein have been found for this gene.
PEAK1	This gene encodes a non-receptor tyrosine kinase that is a member of the new kinase family three (NFK3) family. In migrating cells, the encoded protein is associated with the actin cytoskeleton and focal adhesions and promotes developing focal adhesion elongation. This protein may play a role in the regulation of cell migration, proliferation and cancer metastasis.
PEPD	This gene encodes a member of the peptidase family. The protein forms a homodimer that hydrolyzes dipeptides or tripeptides with C-terminal proline or hydroxyproline residues. The enzyme serves an important role in the recycling of proline, and may be rate limiting for the production of collagen. Mutations in this gene result in prolidase deficiency, which is characterized by the excretion of large amount of di- and tri-peptides containing proline. Multiple transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been found for this gene.
PER2	This gene is a member of the Period family of genes and is expressed in a circadian pattern in the suprachiasmatic nucleus, the primary circadian pacemaker in the mammalian brain. Genes in this family encode components of the circadian rhythms of locomotor activity, metabolism, and behavior. This gene is upregulated by CLOCK/ARNTL heterodimers but then represses this upregulation in a feedback loop using PER/CRY heterodimers to interact with CLOCK/ARNTL. Polymorphisms in this gene may increase the risk of getting certain cancers and have been linked to sleep disorders.
PEX16	The protein encoded by this gene is an integral peroxisomal membrane protein. An inactivating nonsense mutation localized to this gene was observed in a patient with Zellweger syndrome of the complementation group CGD/CG9. Expression of this gene product morphologically and biochemically restores the formation of new peroxisomes, suggesting a role in peroxisome organization and biogenesis. Alternative splicing has been observed for this gene and two variants have been described.
PF4	This gene encodes a member of the CXC chemokine family. This chemokine is released from the alpha granules of activated platelets in the form of a homotetramer which has high affinity for heparin and is involved in platelet aggregation. This protein is chemotactic for numerous other cell type and also functions as an inhibitor of hematopoiesis, angiogenesis and T-cell function. The protein also exhibits antimicrobial activity against Plasmodium falciparum.
PFKFB1	This gene encodes a member of the family of bifunctional 6-phosphofructo-2-kinase:fructose-2,6-biphosphatase enzymes. The enzyme forms a homodimer that catalyzes both the synthesis and degradation of fructose-2,6-biphosphate using independent catalytic domains. Fructose-2,6-biphosphate is an activator of the glycolysis pathway and an inhibitor of the gluconeogenesis pathway. Consequently, regulating fructose-2,6-biphosphate levels through the activity of this enzyme is thought to regulate glucose homeostasis. Multiple alternatively spliced transcript variants have been found for this gene.
PFKFB2	The protein encoded by this gene is involved in both the synthesis and degradation of fructose-2,6-bisphosphate, a regulatory molecule that controls glycolysis in eukaryotes. The encoded protein has a 6-phosphofructo-2-kinase activity that catalyzes the synthesis of fructose-2,6-bisphosphate, and a fructose-2,6-biphosphatase activity that catalyzes the degradation of fructose-2,6-bisphosphate. This protein regulates fructose-2,6-bisphosphate levels in the heart, while a related enzyme encoded by a different gene regulates fructose-2,6-bisphosphate levels in the liver and muscle. This enzyme functions as a homodimer. Two transcript variants encoding two different isoforms have been found for this gene.
PFKFB3	The protein encoded by this gene belongs to a family of bifunctional proteins that are involved in both the synthesis and degradation of fructose-2,6-bisphosphate, a regulatory molecule that controls glycolysis in eukaryotes. The encoded protein has a 6-phosphofructo-2-kinase activity that catalyzes the synthesis of fructose-2,6-bisphosphate (F2,6BP), and a fructose-2,6-biphosphatase activity that catalyzes the degradation of F2,6BP. This protein is required for cell cycle progression and prevention of apoptosis. It functions as a regulator of cyclin-dependent kinase 1, linking glucose metabolism to cell proliferation and survival in tumor cells. Several alternatively spliced transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been found for this gene.
PFKFB4	The protein encoded by this gene is one of four bifunctional kinase/phosphatases that regulate the concentration of the glycolytic byproduct fructose-2,6-bisphosphate (F2,6BP). The encoded protein is highly expressed in cancer cells and is induced by hypoxia. This protein is essential to the survival of cancer cells under conditions of hypoxia, because it increases the amount of F2,6BP and ATP at a time when the cell cannot produce much of them. This finding suggests that this protein may be a good target for disruption in cancer cells, hopefully imperiling their survival. Several transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been found for this gene.
PFKM	Three phosphofructokinase isozymes exist in humans: muscle, liver and platelet. These isozymes function as subunits of the mammalian tetramer phosphofructokinase, which catalyzes the phosphorylation of fructose-6-phosphate to fructose-1,6-bisphosphate. Tetramer composition varies depending on tissue type. This gene encodes the muscle-type isozyme. Mutations in this gene have been associated with glycogen storage disease type VII, also known as Tarui disease. Alternatively spliced transcript variants have been described.
PGA5	This gene encodes a protein precursor of the digestive enzyme pepsin, a member of the peptidase A1 family of endopeptidases. The encoded precursor is secreted by gastric chief cells and undergoes autocatalytic cleavage in acidic conditions to form the active enzyme, which functions in the digestion of dietary proteins. This gene is found in a cluster of related genes on chromosome 11, each of which encodes one of multiple pepsinogens. Pepsinogen levels in serum may serve as a biomarker for atrophic gastritis and gastric cancer.
PGAM1	The protein encoded by this gene is a mutase that catalyzes the reversible reaction of 3-phosphoglycerate (3-PGA) to 2-phosphoglycerate (2-PGA) in the glycolytic pathway. Two transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been found for this gene.
PGC	This gene encodes an aspartic proteinase that belongs to the peptidase family A1. The encoded protein is a digestive enzyme that is produced in the stomach and constitutes a major component of the gastric mucosa. This protein is also secreted into the serum. This protein is synthesized as an inactive zymogen that includes a highly basic prosegment. This enzyme is converted into its active mature form at low pH by sequential cleavage of the prosegment that is carried out by the enzyme itself. Polymorphisms in this gene are associated with susceptibility to gastric cancers. Serum levels of this enzyme are used as a biomarker for certain gastric diseases including Helicobacter pylori related gastritis. Alternate splicing results in multiple transcript variants. A pseudogene of this gene is found on chromosome 1.
PGD	6-phosphogluconate dehydrogenase is the second dehydrogenase in the pentose phosphate shunt. Deficiency of this enzyme is generally asymptomatic, and the inheritance of this disorder is autosomal dominant. Hemolysis results from combined deficiency of 6-phosphogluconate dehydrogenase and 6-phosphogluconolactonase suggesting a synergism of the two enzymopathies. Several transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been found for this gene.
PGF	This gene encodes a growth factor found in placenta which is homologous to vascular endothelial growth factor. Alternatively spliced transcripts encoding different isoforms have been found for this gene.
PGGT1B	Protein geranylgeranyltransferase type I (GGTase-I) transfers a geranylgeranyl group to the cysteine residue of candidate proteins containing a C-terminal CAAX motif in which 'A' is an aliphatic amino acid and 'X' is leucine (summarized by Zhang et al., 1994
PGK1	The protein encoded by this gene is a glycolytic enzyme that catalyzes the conversion of 1,3-diphosphoglycerate to 3-phosphoglycerate. The encoded protein may also act as a cofactor for polymerase alpha. Additionally, this protein is secreted by tumor cells where it participates in angiogenesis by functioning to reduce disulfide bonds in the serine protease, plasmin, which consequently leads to the release of the tumor blood vessel inhibitor angiostatin. The encoded protein has been identified as a moonlighting protein based on its ability to perform mechanistically distinct functions. Deficiency of the enzyme is associated with a wide range of clinical phenotypes hemolytic anemia and neurological impairment. Pseudogenes of this gene have been defined on chromosomes 19, 21 and the X chromosome.
PGR	This gene encodes a member of the steroid receptor superfamily. The encoded protein mediates the physiological effects of progesterone, which plays a central role in reproductive events associated with the establishment and maintenance of pregnancy. This gene uses two distinct promotors and translation start sites in the first exon to produce several transcript variants, both protein coding and non-protein coding. Two of the isoforms (A and B) are identical except for an additional 165 amino acids found in the N-terminus of isoform B and mediate their own response genes and physiologic effects with little overlap.
PHF13	Modulates chromatin structure. Required for normal chromosome condensation during the early stages of mitosis. Required for normal chromosome separation during mitosis.
PHF23	Acts as a negative regulator of autophagy, through promoting ubiquitination and degradation of LRSAM1, an E3 ubiquitin ligase that promotes autophagy in response to starvation or infecting bacteria.
PHF8	The protein encoded by this gene is a histone lysine demethylase that preferentially acts on histones in the monomethyl or dimethyl states. The encoded protein requires Fe(2+) ion, 2-oxoglutarate, and oxygen for its catalytic activity. The protein has an N-terminal PHD finger and a central Jumonji C domain. This gene is thought to function as a transcription activator. Defects in this gene are a cause of syndromic X-linked Siderius type intellectual disability (MRXSSD) and over-expression of this gene is associated with several forms of cancer. Multiple transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been found for this gene.
PHGDH	This gene encodes the enzyme which is involved in the early steps of L-serine synthesis in animal cells. L-serine is required for D-serine and other amino acid synthesis. The enzyme requires NAD/NADH as a cofactor and forms homotetramers for activity. Mutations in this gene have been found in a family with congenital microcephaly, psychomotor retardation and other symptoms. Multiple alternatively spliced transcript variants have been found, however the full-length nature of most are not known.
PHIP	This gene encodes a protein that binds to the insulin receptor substrate 1 protein and regulates glucose transporter translocation in skeletal muscle cells. The encoded protein may also regulate growth and survival of pancreatic beta cells. Elevated copy number of this gene may be associated with melanoma severity and the encoded protein may promote melanoma metastasis in human patients.
PHKG1	This gene is a member of the Ser/Thr protein kinase family and encodes a protein with one protein kinase domain and two calmodulin-binding domains. This protein is the catalytic member of a 16 subunit protein kinase complex which contains equimolar ratios of 4 subunit types. The complex is a crucial glycogenolytic regulatory enzyme. This gene has two pseudogenes at chromosome 7q11.21 and one at chromosome 11p11.12. Multiple transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been found for this gene.
PHKG2	Phosphorylase kinase is a polymer of 16 subunits, four each of alpha, beta, gamma and delta. The alpha subunit includes the skeletal muscle and hepatic isoforms, encoded by two different genes. The beta subunit is the same in both the muscle and hepatic isoforms, and encoded by one gene. The gamma subunit also includes the skeletal muscle and hepatic isoforms, and the hepatic isoform is encoded by this gene. The delta subunit is a calmodulin and can be encoded by three different genes. The gamma subunits contain the active site of the enzyme, whereas the alpha and beta subunits have regulatory functions controlled by phosphorylation. The delta subunit mediates the dependence of the enzyme on calcium concentration. Mutations in this gene cause glycogen storage disease type 9C, also known as autosomal liver glycogenosis. Alternatively spliced transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been identified in this gene.
PHLPP1	This gene encodes a member of the serine/threonine phosphatase family. The encoded protein promotes apoptosis by dephosphorylating and inactivating the serine/threonine kinase Akt, and functions as a tumor suppressor in multiple types of cancer. Increased expression of this gene may also play a role in obesity and type 2 diabetes by interfering with Akt-mediated insulin signaling.
PHLPP2	Protein phosphatase involved in regulation of Akt and PKC signaling. Mediates dephosphorylation in the C-terminal domain hydrophobic motif of members of the AGC Ser/Thr protein kinase family; specifically acts on 'Ser-473' of AKT1, 'Ser-660' of PRKCB isoform beta-II and 'Ser-657' of PRKCA. Akt regulates the balance between cell survival and apoptosis through a cascade that primarily alters the function of transcription factors that regulate pro- and antiapoptotic genes. Dephosphorylation of 'Ser-473' of Akt triggers apoptosis and decreases cell proliferation. Also controls the phosphorylation of AKT3. Dephosphorylates STK4 on 'Thr-387' leading to STK4 activation and apoptosis .
PHOSPHO1	Phosphatase that has a high activity toward phosphoethanolamine (PEA) and phosphocholine (PCho). Involved in the generation of inorganic phosphate for bone mineralization.
PI4K2A	Phosphatidylinositolpolyphosphates (PtdInsPs) are centrally involved in many biologic processes, ranging from cell growth and organization of the actin cytoskeleton to endo- and exocytosis. PI4KII phosphorylates PtdIns at the D-4 position, an essential step in the biosynthesis of PtdInsPs (Barylko et al., 2001
PI4K2B	This gene encodes a member of the type II PI4 kinase protein family. The encoded protein is primarily cytosolic and contributes to overall PI4-kinase activity along with other protein family members. This protein is involved in early T cell activation.
PI4KA	This gene encodes a phosphatidylinositol (PI) 4-kinase which catalyzes the first committed step in the biosynthesis of phosphatidylinositol 4,5-bisphosphate. The mammalian PI 4-kinases have been classified into two types, II and III, based on their molecular mass, and modulation by detergent and adenosine. The protein encoded by this gene is a type III enzyme that is not inhibited by adenosine. Alternative splicing results in multiple transcript variants encoding distinct isoforms.
PI4KB	Phosphorylates phosphatidylinositol (PI) in the first committed step in the production of the second messenger inositol-1,4,5,-trisphosphate (PIP). May regulate Golgi disintegration/reorganization during mitosis, possibly via its phosphorylation. Involved in Golgi-to-plasma membrane trafficking (By similarity).
PIK3C2A	The protein encoded by this gene belongs to the phosphoinositide 3-kinase (PI3K) family. PI3-kinases play roles in signaling pathways involved in cell proliferation, oncogenic transformation, cell survival, cell migration, and intracellular protein trafficking. This protein contains a lipid kinase catalytic domain as well as a C-terminal C2 domain, a characteristic of class II PI3-kinases. C2 domains act as calcium-dependent phospholipid binding motifs that mediate translocation of proteins to membranes, and may also mediate protein-protein interactions. The PI3-kinase activity of this protein is not sensitive to nanomolar levels of the inhibitor wortmanin. This protein was shown to be able to be activated by insulin and may be involved in integrin-dependent signaling.
PIK3C2B	The protein encoded by this gene belongs to the phosphoinositide 3-kinase (PI3K) family. PI3-kinases play roles in signaling pathways involved in cell proliferation, oncogenic transformation, cell survival, cell migration, and intracellular protein trafficking. This protein contains a lipid kinase catalytic domain as well as a C-terminal C2 domain, a characteristic of class II PI3-kinases. C2 domains act as calcium-dependent phospholipid binding motifs that mediate translocation of proteins to membranes, and may also mediate protein-protein interactions. The PI3-kinase activity of this protein is sensitive to low nanomolar levels of the inhibitor wortmanin. The C2 domain of this protein was shown to bind phospholipids but not Ca2+, which suggests that this enzyme may function in a calcium-independent manner.
PIK3C2G	The protein encoded by this gene belongs to the phosphoinositide 3-kinase (PI3K) family. PI3-kinases play roles in signaling pathways involved in cell proliferation, oncogenic transformation, cell survival, cell migration, and intracellular protein trafficking. This protein contains a lipid kinase catalytic domain as well as a C-terminal C2 domain, a characteristic of class II PI3-kinases. C2 domains act as calcium-dependent phospholipid binding motifs that mediate translocation of proteins to membranes, and may also mediate protein-protein interactions. This gene may play a role in several diseases, including type II diabetes. Alternative splicing results in multiple transcript variants.
PIK3C3	Catalytic subunit of the PI3K complex that mediates formation of phosphatidylinositol 3-phosphate; different complex forms are believed to play a role in multiple membrane trafficking pathways: PI3KC3-C1 is involved in initiation of autophagosomes and PI3KC3-C2 in maturation of autophagosomes and endocytosis. Involved in regulation of degradative endocytic trafficking and required for the abcission step in cytokinesis, probably in the context of PI3KC3-C2 .
PIK3CA	Phosphatidylinositol 3-kinase is composed of an 85 kDa regulatory subunit and a 110 kDa catalytic subunit. The protein encoded by this gene represents the catalytic subunit, which uses ATP to phosphorylate PtdIns, PtdIns4P and PtdIns(4,5)P2. This gene has been found to be oncogenic and has been implicated in cervical cancers. A pseudogene of this gene has been defined on chromosome 22.
PIK3CB	This gene encodes an isoform of the catalytic subunit of phosphoinositide 3-kinase (PI3K). These kinases are important in signaling pathways involving receptors on the outer membrane of eukaryotic cells and are named for their catalytic subunit. The encoded protein is the catalytic subunit for PI3Kbeta (PI3KB). PI3KB has been shown to be part of the activation pathway in neutrophils which have bound immune complexes at sites of injury or infection. Alternative splicing results in multiple transcript variants.
PIK3CD	Phosphoinositide 3-kinases (PI3Ks) phosphorylate inositol lipids and are involved in the immune response. The protein encoded by this gene is a class I PI3K found primarily in leukocytes. Like other class I PI3Ks (p110-alpha p110-beta, and p110-gamma), the encoded protein binds p85 adapter proteins and GTP-bound RAS. However, unlike the other class I PI3Ks, this protein phosphorylates itself, not p85 protein.
PIK3CG	Phosphoinositide 3-kinases (PI3Ks) phosphorylate inositol lipids and are involved in the immune response. The protein encoded by this gene is a class I catalytic subunit of PI3K. Like other class I catalytic subunits (p110-alpha p110-beta, and p110-delta), the encoded protein binds a p85 regulatory subunit to form PI3K. This gene is located in a commonly deleted segment of chromosome 7 previously identified in myeloid leukemias. Several transcript variants encoding the same protein have been found for this gene.
PIK3R1	Phosphatidylinositol 3-kinase phosphorylates the inositol ring of phosphatidylinositol at the 3-prime position. The enzyme comprises a 110 kD catalytic subunit and a regulatory subunit of either 85, 55, or 50 kD. This gene encodes the 85 kD regulatory subunit. Phosphatidylinositol 3-kinase plays an important role in the metabolic actions of insulin, and a mutation in this gene has been associated with insulin resistance. Alternative splicing of this gene results in four transcript variants encoding different isoforms.
PIK3R2	Phosphatidylinositol 3-kinase (PI3K) is a lipid kinase that phosphorylates phosphatidylinositol and similar compounds, creating second messengers important in growth signaling pathways. PI3K functions as a heterodimer of a regulatory and a catalytic subunit. The protein encoded by this gene is a regulatory component of PI3K. Three transcript variants, one protein coding and the other two non-protein coding, have been found for this gene.
PIK3R4	Regulatory subunit of the PI3K complex that mediates formation of phosphatidylinositol 3-phosphate; different complex forms are believed to play a role in multiple membrane trafficking pathways: PI3KC3-C1 is involved in initiation of autophagosomes and PI3KC3-C2 in maturation of autophagosomes and endocytosis. Involved in regulation of degradative endocytic trafficking and cytokinesis, probably in the context of PI3KC3-C2 .
PIKFYVE	Phosphorylated derivatives of phosphatidylinositol (PtdIns) regulate cytoskeletal functions, membrane trafficking, and receptor signaling by recruiting protein complexes to cell- and endosomal-membranes. Humans have multiple PtdIns proteins that differ by the degree and position of phosphorylation of the inositol ring. This gene encodes an enzyme (PIKfyve; also known as phosphatidylinositol-3-phosphate 5-kinase type III or PIPKIII) that phosphorylates the D-5 position in PtdIns and phosphatidylinositol-3-phosphate (PtdIns3P) to make PtdIns5P and PtdIns(3,5)biphosphate. The D-5 position also can be phosphorylated by type I PtdIns4P-5-kinases (PIP5Ks) that are encoded by distinct genes and preferentially phosphorylate D-4 phosphorylated PtdIns. In contrast, PIKfyve preferentially phosphorylates D-3 phosphorylated PtdIns. In addition to being a lipid kinase, PIKfyve also has protein kinase activity. PIKfyve regulates endomembrane homeostasis and plays a role in the biogenesis of endosome carrier vesicles from early endosomes. Mutations in this gene cause corneal fleck dystrophy (CFD); an autosomal dominant disorder characterized by numerous small white flecks present in all layers of the corneal stroma. Histologically, these flecks appear to be keratocytes distended with lipid and mucopolysaccharide filled intracytoplasmic vacuoles. Alternative splicing results in multiple transcript variants encoding distinct isoforms.
PIM1	The protein encoded by this gene belongs to the Ser/Thr protein kinase family, and PIM subfamily. This gene is expressed primarily in B-lymphoid and myeloid cell lines, and is overexpressed in hematopoietic malignancies and in prostate cancer. It plays a role in signal transduction in blood cells, contributing to both cell proliferation and survival, and thus provides a selective advantage in tumorigenesis. Both the human and orthologous mouse genes have been reported to encode two isoforms (with preferential cellular localization) resulting from the use of alternative in-frame translation initiation codons, the upstream non-AUG (CUG) and downstream AUG codons (PMIDs:16186805, 1825810).
PIM2	This gene encodes a protooncogene that acts as a serine/threonine protein kinase. Studies determined the encoded protein functions to prevent apoptosis and to promote cell survival.
PIM3	The protein encoded by this gene belongs to the Ser/Thr protein kinase family, and PIM subfamily. This gene is overexpressed in hematological and epithelial tumors and is associated with MYC coexpression. It plays a role in the regulation of signal transduction cascades, contributing to both cell proliferation and survival, and provides a selective advantage in tumorigenesis.
PIN1	Peptidyl-prolyl cis/trans isomerases (PPIases) catalyze the cis/trans isomerization of peptidyl-prolyl peptide bonds. This gene encodes one of the PPIases, which specifically binds to phosphorylated ser/thr-pro motifs to catalytically regulate the post-phosphorylation conformation of its substrates. The conformational regulation catalyzed by this PPIase has a profound impact on key proteins involved in the regulation of cell growth, genotoxic and other stress responses, the immune response, induction and maintenance of pluripotency, germ cell development, neuronal differentiation, and survival. This enzyme also plays a key role in the pathogenesis of Alzheimer's disease and many cancers. Multiple alternatively spliced transcript variants have been found for this gene.
PIN4	This gene encodes a member of the parvulin subfamily of the peptidyl-prolyl cis/trans isomerase protein family. The encoded protein catalyzes the isomerization of peptidylprolyl bonds, and may play a role in the cell cycle, chromatin remodeling, and/or ribosome biogenesis. The encoded protein may play an additional role in the mitochondria.
PINK1	This gene encodes a serine/threonine protein kinase that localizes to mitochondria. It is thought to protect cells from stress-induced mitochondrial dysfunction. Mutations in this gene cause one form of autosomal recessive early-onset Parkinson disease.
PIP4K2A	Phosphatidylinositol-5,4-bisphosphate, the precursor to second messengers of the phosphoinositide signal transduction pathways, is thought to be involved in the regulation of secretion, cell proliferation, differentiation, and motility. The protein encoded by this gene is one of a family of enzymes capable of catalyzing the phosphorylation of phosphatidylinositol-5-phosphate on the fourth hydroxyl of the myo-inositol ring to form phosphatidylinositol-5,4-bisphosphate. The amino acid sequence of this enzyme does not show homology to other kinases, but the recombinant protein does exhibit kinase activity. This gene is a member of the phosphatidylinositol-5-phosphate 4-kinase family.
PIP4K2B	The protein encoded by this gene catalyzes the phosphorylation of phosphatidylinositol-5-phosphate on the fourth hydroxyl of the myo-inositol ring to form phosphatidylinositol-5,4-bisphosphate. This gene is a member of the phosphatidylinositol-5-phosphate 4-kinase family. The encoded protein sequence does not show similarity to other kinases, but the protein does exhibit kinase activity. Additionally, the encoded protein interacts with p55 TNF receptor.
PIP4K2C	May play an important role in the production of Phosphatidylinositol bisphosphate (PIP2), in the endoplasmic reticulum.
PIP5K1A	Catalyzes the phosphorylation of phosphatidylinositol 4-phosphate (PtdIns4P) to form phosphatidylinositol 4,5-bisphosphate (PtdIns(4,5)P2). PtdIns(4,5)P2 is involved in a variety of cellular processes and is the substrate to form phosphatidylinositol 3,4,5-trisphosphate (PtdIns(3,4,5)P3), another second messenger. The majority of PtdIns(4,5)P2 is thought to occur via type I phosphatidylinositol 4-phosphate 5-kinases given the abundance of PtdIns4P. Participates in a variety of cellular processes such as actin cytoskeleton organization, cell adhesion, migration and phagocytosis. Required for membrane ruffling formation, actin organization and focal adhesion formation during directional cell migration by controlling integrin-induced translocation of RAC1 to the plasma membrane. Together with PIP5K1C is required for phagocytosis, but they regulate different types of actin remodeling at sequential steps. Promotes particle ingestion by activating WAS that induces Arp2/3 dependent actin polymerization at the nascent phagocytic cup. Together with PIP5K1B is required after stimulation of G-protein coupled receptors for stable platelet adhesion. Plays a role during calcium-induced keratinocyte differentiation. Recruited to the plasma membrane by the E-cadherin/beta-catenin complex where it provides the substrate PtdIns(4,5)P2 for the production of PtdIns(3,4,5)P3, diacylglycerol and inositol 1,4,5-trisphosphate that mobilize internal calcium and drive keratinocyte differentiation. Together with PIP5K1C have a role during embryogenesis. Functions also in the nucleus where acts as an activator of TUT1 adenylyltransferase activity in nuclear speckles, thereby regulating mRNA polyadenylation of a select set of mRNAs .
PIP5K1C	This locus encodes a type I phosphatidylinositol 4-phosphate 5-kinase. The encoded protein catalyzes phosphorylation of phosphatidylinositol 4-phosphate, producing phosphatidylinositol 4,5-bisphosphate. This enzyme is found at synapses and has been found to play roles in endocytosis and cell migration. Mutations at this locus have been associated with lethal congenital contractural syndrome. Alternatively spliced transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been described.
PIPOX	Metabolizes sarcosine, L-pipecolic acid and L-proline.
PIR	This gene encodes a member of the cupin superfamily. The encoded protein is an Fe(II)-containing nuclear protein expressed in all tissues of the body and concentrated within dot-like subnuclear structures. Interactions with nuclear factor I/CCAAT box transcription factor as well as B cell lymphoma 3-encoded oncoprotein suggest the encoded protein may act as a transcriptional cofactor and be involved in the regulation of DNA transcription and replication. Alternatively spliced transcript variants have been described.
PITPNM1	PITPNM1 belongs to a family of membrane-associated phosphatidylinositol transfer domain-containing proteins that share homology with the Drosophila retinal degeneration B (rdgB) protein (Ocaka et al., 2005
PITRM1	The protein encoded by this gene is an ATP-dependent metalloprotease that degrades post-cleavage mitochondrial transit peptides. The encoded protein binds zinc and can also degrade amyloid beta A4 protein, suggesting a possible role in Alzheimer's disease.
PKLR	The protein encoded by this gene is a pyruvate kinase that catalyzes the transphosphorylation of phohsphoenolpyruvate into pyruvate and ATP, which is the rate-limiting step of glycolysis. Defects in this enzyme, due to gene mutations or genetic variations, are the common cause of chronic hereditary nonspherocytic hemolytic anemia (CNSHA or HNSHA). Multiple transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been found for this gene.
PKM	This gene encodes a protein involved in glycolysis. The encoded protein is a pyruvate kinase that catalyzes the transfer of a phosphoryl group from phosphoenolpyruvate to ADP, generating ATP and pyruvate. This protein has been shown to interact with thyroid hormone and may mediate cellular metabolic effects induced by thyroid hormones. This protein has been found to bind Opa protein, a bacterial outer membrane protein involved in gonococcal adherence to and invasion of human cells, suggesting a role of this protein in bacterial pathogenesis. Several alternatively spliced transcript variants encoding a few distinct isoforms have been reported.
PKMYT1	This gene encodes a member of the serine/threonine protein kinase family. The encoded protein is a membrane-associated kinase that negatively regulates the G2/M transition of the cell cycle by phosphorylating and inactivating cyclin-dependent kinase 1. The activity of the encoded protein is regulated by polo-like kinase 1. Alternatively spliced transcript variants encoding multiple isoforms have been observed for this gene.
PKN1	The protein encoded by this gene belongs to the protein kinase C superfamily. This kinase is activated by Rho family of small G proteins and may mediate the Rho-dependent signaling pathway. This kinase can be activated by phospholipids and by limited proteolysis. The 3-phosphoinositide dependent protein kinase-1 (PDPK1/PDK1) is reported to phosphorylate this kinase, which may mediate insulin signals to the actin cytoskeleton. The proteolytic activation of this kinase by caspase-3 or related proteases during apoptosis suggests its role in signal transduction related to apoptosis. Alternatively spliced transcript variants encoding distinct isoforms have been observed.
PKN2	PKC-related serine/threonine-protein kinase and Rho/Rac effector protein that participates in specific signal transduction responses in the cell. Plays a role in the regulation of cell cycle progression, actin cytoskeleton assembly, cell migration, cell adhesion, tumor cell invasion and transcription activation signaling processes. Phosphorylates CTTN in hyaluronan-induced astrocytes and hence decreases CTTN ability to associate with filamentous actin. Phosphorylates HDAC5, therefore lead to impair HDAC5 import. Direct RhoA target required for the regulation of the maturation of primordial junctions into apical junction formation in bronchial epithelial cells. Required for G2/M phases of the cell cycle progression and abscission during cytokinesis in a ECT2-dependent manner. Stimulates FYN kinase activity that is required for establishment of skin cell-cell adhesion during keratinocytes differentiation. Regulates epithelial bladder cells speed and direction of movement during cell migration and tumor cell invasion. Inhibits Akt pro-survival-induced kinase activity. Mediates Rho protein-induced transcriptional activation via the c-fos serum response factor (SRF). Involved in the negative regulation of ciliogenesis .
PKN3	Contributes to invasiveness in malignant prostate cancer.
PLA2G12A	Secreted phospholipase A2 (sPLA2) enzymes liberate arachidonic acid from phospholipids for production of eicosanoids and exert a variety of physiologic and pathologic effects. Group XII sPLA2s, such as PLA2G12A, have relatively low specific activity and are structurally and functionally distinct from other sPLA2s (Gelb et al., 2000
PLA2G15	Lysophospholipases are enzymes that act on biological membranes to regulate the multifunctional lysophospholipids. The protein encoded by this gene hydrolyzes lysophosphatidylcholine to glycerophosphorylcholine and a free fatty acid. This enzyme is present in the plasma and thought to be associated with high-density lipoprotein. A later paper contradicts the function of this gene. It demonstrates that this gene encodes a lysosomal enzyme instead of a lysophospholipase and has both calcium-independent phospholipase A2 and transacylase activities.
PLA2G1B	This gene encodes a secreted member of the phospholipase A2 (PLA2) class of enzymes, which is produced by the pancreatic acinar cells. The encoded calcium-dependent enzyme catalyzes the hydrolysis of the sn-2 position of membrane glycerophospholipids to release arachidonic acid (AA) and lysophospholipids. AA is subsequently converted by downstream metabolic enzymes to several bioactive lipophilic compounds (eicosanoids), including prostaglandins (PGs) and leukotrienes (LTs). The enzyme may be involved in several physiological processes including cell contraction, cell proliferation and pathological response.
PLA2G2A	The protein encoded by this gene is a member of the phospholipase A2 family (PLA2). PLA2s constitute a diverse family of enzymes with respect to sequence, function, localization, and divalent cation requirements. This gene product belongs to group II, which contains secreted form of PLA2, an extracellular enzyme that has a low molecular mass and requires calcium ions for catalysis. It catalyzes the hydrolysis of the sn-2 fatty acid acyl ester bond of phosphoglycerides, releasing free fatty acids and lysophospholipids, and thought to participate in the regulation of the phospholipid metabolism in biomembranes. Several alternatively spliced transcript variants with different 5' UTRs have been found for this gene.
PLA2G2C	Inactive phospholipase.
PLA2G2D	This gene encodes a secreted member of the phospholipase A2 family, and is found in a cluster of related family members on chromosome 1. Phospholipase A2 family members hydrolyze the sn-2 fatty acid ester bond of glycerophospholipids to produce lysophospholipids and free fatty acid. This gene may be involved in inflammation and immune response, and in weight loss associated with chronic obstructive pulmonary disease. Alternative splicing results in multiple transcript variants encoding different isoforms.
PLA2G2E	PA2 catalyzes the calcium-dependent hydrolysis of the 2-acyl groups in 3-sn-phosphoglycerides. Has a preference for arachidonic-containing phospholipids.
PLA2G2F	May play a role in lipid mediator production in inflammatory conditions, by providing arachidonic acid to downstream cyclooxygenases and lipoxygenases (By similarity). Phospholipase A2, which catalyzes the calcium-dependent hydrolysis of the 2-acyl groups in 3-sn-phosphoglycerides .
PLA2G3	This gene encodes a protein that belongs to the secreted phospholipase A2 family, whose members include the bee venom enzyme. The encoded enzyme functions in lipid metabolism and catalyzes the calcium-dependent hydrolysis of the sn-2 acyl bond of phospholipids to release arachidonic acid and lysophospholipids. This enzyme acts as a negative regulator of ciliogenesis, and may play a role in cancer development by stimulating tumor cell growth and angiogenesis. This gene is associated with oxidative stress, and polymorphisms in this gene are linked to risk for Alzheimer's disease.
PLA2G4A	This gene encodes a member of the cytosolic phospholipase A2 group IV family. The enzyme catalyzes the hydrolysis of membrane phospholipids to release arachidonic acid which is subsequently metabolized into eicosanoids. Eicosanoids, including prostaglandins and leukotrienes, are lipid-based cellular hormones that regulate hemodynamics, inflammatory responses, and other intracellular pathways. The hydrolysis reaction also produces lysophospholipids that are converted into platelet-activating factor. The enzyme is activated by increased intracellular Ca(2+) levels and phosphorylation, resulting in its translocation from the cytosol and nucleus to perinuclear membrane vesicles. Alternative splicing results in multiple transcript variants.
PLA2G4B	This gene encodes a member of the cytosolic phospholipase A2 protein family. Phospholipase A2 enzymes hydrolyze the sn-2 bond of phospholipids, releasing lysophospholipids and fatty acids. This enzyme may be associated with mitochondria and early endosomes. Most tissues also express read-through transcripts from the upstream gene into this gene, some of which may encode fusion proteins combining the N-terminus of the upstream gene including its JmjC domain with the almost complete coding region of this gene, including the C2 and cytoplasmic phospholipase A2 domains.
PLA2G4C	This gene encodes a protein which is a member of the phospholipase A2 enzyme family which hydrolyzes glycerophospholipids to produce free fatty acids and lysophospholipids, both of which serve as precursors in the production of signaling molecules. The encoded protein has been shown to be a calcium-independent and membrane bound enzyme. Multiple transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been found for this gene.
PLA2G5	This gene is a member of the secretory phospholipase A2 family. It is located in a tightly-linked cluster of secretory phospholipase A2 genes on chromosome 1. The encoded enzyme catalyzes the hydrolysis of membrane phospholipids to generate lysophospholipids and free fatty acids including arachidonic acid. It preferentially hydrolyzes linoleoyl-containing phosphatidylcholine substrates. Secretion of this enzyme is thought to induce inflammatory responses in neighboring cells. Alternatively spliced transcript variants have been found, but their full-length nature has not been determined.
PLA2G6	The protein encoded by this gene is an A2 phospholipase, a class of enzyme that catalyzes the release of fatty acids from phospholipids. The encoded protein may play a role in phospholipid remodelling, arachidonic acid release, leukotriene and prostaglandin synthesis, fas-mediated apoptosis, and transmembrane ion flux in glucose-stimulated B-cells. Several transcript variants encoding multiple isoforms have been described, but the full-length nature of only three of them have been determined to date.
PLA2G7	The protein encoded by this gene is a secreted enzyme that catalyzes the degradation of platelet-activating factor to biologically inactive products. Defects in this gene are a cause of platelet-activating factor acetylhydrolase deficiency. Two transcript variants encoding the same protein have been found for this gene.
PLA2R1	This gene represents a phospholipase A2 receptor. The encoded protein likely exists as both a transmembrane form and a soluble form. The transmembrane receptor may play a role in clearance of phospholipase A2, thereby inhibiting its action. Polymorphisms at this locus have been associated with susceptibility to idiopathic membranous nephropathy. Alternatively spliced transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been identified.
PLAA	Plays a role in protein ubiquitination, sorting and degradation through its association with VCP .
PLAT	This gene encodes tissue-type plasminogen activator, a secreted serine protease that converts the proenzyme plasminogen to plasmin, a fibrinolytic enzyme. The encoded preproprotein is proteolytically processed by plasmin or trypsin to generate heavy and light chains. These chains associate via disulfide linkages to form the heterodimeric enzyme. This enzyme plays a role in cell migration and tissue remodeling. Increased enzymatic activity causes hyperfibrinolysis, which manifests as excessive bleeding, while decreased activity leads to hypofibrinolysis, which can result in thrombosis or embolism. Alternative splicing of this gene results in multiple transcript variants, at least one of which encodes an isoform that is proteolytically processed.
PLAUR	This gene encodes the receptor for urokinase plasminogen activator and, given its role in localizing and promoting plasmin formation, likely influences many normal and pathological processes related to cell-surface plasminogen activation and localized degradation of the extracellular matrix. It binds both the proprotein and mature forms of urokinase plasminogen activator and permits the activation of the receptor-bound pro-enzyme by plasmin. The protein lacks transmembrane or cytoplasmic domains and may be anchored to the plasma membrane by a glycosyl-phosphatidylinositol (GPI) moiety following cleavage of the nascent polypeptide near its carboxy-terminus. However, a soluble protein is also produced in some cell types. Alternative splicing results in multiple transcript variants encoding different isoforms. The proprotein experiences several post-translational cleavage reactions that have not yet been fully defined.
PLCB1	The protein encoded by this gene catalyzes the formation of inositol 1,4,5-trisphosphate and diacylglycerol from phosphatidylinositol 4,5-bisphosphate. This reaction uses calcium as a cofactor and plays an important role in the intracellular transduction of many extracellular signals. This gene is activated by two G-protein alpha subunits, alpha-q and alpha-11. Two transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been found for this gene.
PLCB3	This gene encodes a member of the phosphoinositide phospholipase C beta enzyme family that catalyze the production of the secondary messengers diacylglycerol and inositol 1,4,5-triphosphate from phosphatidylinositol in G-protein-linked receptor-mediated signal transduction. Alternative splicing results in multiple transcript variants.
PLCD1	This gene encodes a member of the phospholipase C family. Phospholipase C isozymes play critical roles in intracellular signal transduction by catalyzing the hydrolysis of phosphatidylinositol 4,5-bisphosphate (PIP2) into the second messengers diacylglycerol (DAG) and inositol triphosphate (IP3). The encoded protein functions as a tumor suppressor in several types of cancer, and mutations in this gene are a cause of hereditary leukonychia. Alternatively spliced transcript variants encoding multiple isoforms have been observed for this gene.
PLCG1	The protein encoded by this gene catalyzes the formation of inositol 1,4,5-trisphosphate and diacylglycerol from phosphatidylinositol 4,5-bisphosphate. This reaction uses calcium as a cofactor and plays an important role in the intracellular transduction of receptor-mediated tyrosine kinase activators. For example, when activated by SRC, the encoded protein causes the Ras guanine nucleotide exchange factor RasGRP1 to translocate to the Golgi, where it activates Ras. Also, this protein has been shown to be a major substrate for heparin-binding growth factor 1 (acidic fibroblast growth factor)-activated tyrosine kinase. Two transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been found for this gene.
PLCG2	The protein encoded by this gene is a transmembrane signaling enzyme that catalyzes the conversion of 1-phosphatidyl-1D-myo-inositol 4,5-bisphosphate to 1D-myo-inositol 1,4,5-trisphosphate (IP3) and diacylglycerol (DAG) using calcium as a cofactor. IP3 and DAG are second messenger molecules important for transmitting signals from growth factor receptors and immune system receptors across the cell membrane. Mutations in this gene have been found in autoinflammation, antibody deficiency, and immune dysregulation syndrome and familial cold autoinflammatory syndrome 3.
PLD1	This gene encodes a phosphatidylcholine-specific phospholipase which catalyzes the hydrolysis of phosphatidylcholine in order to yield phosphatidic acid and choline. The enzyme may play a role in signal transduction and subcellular trafficking. Alternative splicing results in multiple transcript variants with both catalytic and regulatory properties.
PLD2	The protein encoded by this gene catalyzes the hydrolysis of phosphatidylcholine to phosphatidic acid and choline. The activity of the encoded enzyme is enhanced by phosphatidylinositol 4,5-bisphosphate and ADP-ribosylation factor-1. This protein localizes to the peripheral membrane and may be involved in cytoskeletal organization, cell cycle control, transcriptional regulation, and/or regulated secretion. Two transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been found for this gene.
PLEC	Plectin is a prominent member of an important family of structurally and in part functionally related proteins, termed plakins or cytolinkers, that are capable of interlinking different elements of the cytoskeleton. Plakins, with their multi-domain structure and enormous size, not only play crucial roles in maintaining cell and tissue integrity and orchestrating dynamic changes in cytoarchitecture and cell shape, but also serve as scaffolding platforms for the assembly, positioning, and regulation of signaling complexes (reviewed in PMID: 9701547, 11854008, and 17499243). Plectin is expressed as several protein isoforms in a wide range of cell types and tissues from a single gene located on chromosome 8 in humans (PMID: 8633055, 8698233). Until 2010, this locus was named plectin 1 (symbol PLEC1 in human; Plec1 in mouse and rat) and the gene product had been referred to as "hemidesmosomal protein 1" or "plectin 1, intermediate filament binding 500kDa". These names were superseded by plectin. The plectin gene locus in mouse on chromosome 15 has been analyzed in detail (PMID: 10556294, 14559777), revealing a genomic exon-intron organization with well over 40 exons spanning over 62 kb and an unusual 5' transcript complexity of plectin isoforms. Eleven exons (1-1j) have been identified that alternatively splice directly into a common exon 2 which is the first exon to encode plectin's highly conserved actin binding domain (ABD). Three additional exons (-1, 0a, and 0) splice into an alternative first coding exon (1c), and two additional exons (2alpha and 3alpha) are optionally spliced within the exons encoding the acting binding domain (exons 2-8). Analysis of the human locus has identified eight of the eleven alternative 5' exons found in mouse and rat (PMID: 14672974); exons 1i, 1j and 1h have not been confirmed in human. Furthermore, isoforms lacking the central rod domain encoded by exon 31 have been detected in mouse (PMID:10556294), rat (PMID: 9177781), and human (PMID: 11441066, 10780662, 20052759). The short alternative amino-terminal sequences encoded by the different first exons direct the targeting of the various isoforms to distinct subcellular locations (PMID: 14559777). As the expression of specific plectin isoforms was found to be dependent on cell type (tissue) and stage of development (PMID: 10556294, 12542521, 17389230) it appears that each cell type (tissue) contains a unique set (proportion and composition) of plectin isoforms, as if custom-made for specific requirements of the particular cells. Concordantly, individual isoforms were found to carry out distinct and specific functions (PMID: 14559777, 12542521, 18541706). In 1996, a number of groups reported that patients suffering from epidermolysis bullosa simplex with muscular dystrophy (EBS-MD) lacked plectin expression in skin and muscle tissues due to defects in the plectin gene (PMID: 8698233, 8941634, 8636409, 8894687, 8696340). Two other subtypes of plectin-related EBS have been described: EBS-pyloric atresia (PA) and EBS-Ogna. For reviews of plectin-related diseases see PMID: 15810881, 19945614. Mutations in the plectin gene related to human diseases should be named based on the position in NM_000445 (variant 1, isoform 1c), unless the mutation is located within one of the other alternative first exons, in which case the position in the respective Reference Sequence should be used.
PLEKHA1	This gene encodes a pleckstrin homology domain-containing adapter protein. The encoded protein is localized to the plasma membrane where it specifically binds phosphatidylinositol 3,4-bisphosphate. This protein may be involved in the formation of signaling complexes in the plasma membrane. Polymorphisms in this gene are associated with age-related macular degeneration. Alternate splicing results in multiple transcript variants. A pseudogene of this gene is found on chromosome 5.
PLG	The protein encoded by this gene is a secreted blood zymogen that is activated by proteolysis and converted to plasmin and angiostatin. Plasmin dissolves fibrin in blood clots and is an important protease in many other cellular processes while angiostatin inhibits angiogenesis. Defects in this gene are likely a cause of thrombophilia and ligneous conjunctivitis. Two transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been found for this gene.
PLIN1	The protein encoded by this gene coats lipid storage droplets in adipocytes, thereby protecting them until they can be broken down by hormone-sensitive lipase. The encoded protein is the major cAMP-dependent protein kinase substrate in adipocytes and, when unphosphorylated, may play a role in the inhibition of lipolysis. Alternatively spliced transcript variants varying in the 5' UTR, but encoding the same protein, have been found for this gene.
PLIN5	Members of the perilipin family, such as PLIN5, coat intracellular lipid storage droplets and protect them from lipolytic degradation (Dalen et al., 2007
PLK1	The Ser/Thr protein kinase encoded by this gene belongs to the CDC5/Polo subfamily. It is highly expressed during mitosis and elevated levels are found in many different types of cancer. Depletion of this protein in cancer cells dramatically inhibited cell proliferation and induced apoptosis; hence, it is a target for cancer therapy.
PLK2	The protein encoded by this gene is a member of the polo family of serine/threonine protein kinases that have a role in normal cell division. This gene is most abundantly expressed in testis, spleen and fetal tissues, and its expression is inducible by serum, suggesting that it may also play an important role in cells undergoing rapid cell division. Alternatively spliced transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been found for this gene.
PLK3	The protein encoded by this gene is a member of the highly conserved polo-like kinase family of serine/threonine kinases. Members of this family are characterized by an amino-terminal kinase domain and a carboxy-terminal bipartite polo box domain that functions as a substrate-binding motif and a cellular localization signal. Polo-like kinases are important regulators of cell cycle progression. This gene has also been implicated in stress responses and double-strand break repair. In human cell lines, this protein is reported to associate with centrosomes in a microtubule-dependent manner, and during mitosis, the protein becomes localized to the mitotic apparatus. Expression of a kinase-defective mutant results in abnormal cell morphology caused by changes in microtubule dynamics and mitotic arrest followed by apoptosis.
PLK4	This gene encodes a member of the polo family of serine/threonine protein kinases. The protein localizes to centrioles, complex microtubule-based structures found in centrosomes, and regulates centriole duplication during the cell cycle. Three alternatively spliced transcript variants that encode different protein isoforms have been found for this gene.
PLTP	The protein encoded by this gene is one of at least two lipid transfer proteins found in human plasma. The encoded protein transfers phospholipids from triglyceride-rich lipoproteins to high density lipoprotein (HDL). In addition to regulating the size of HDL particles, this protein may be involved in cholesterol metabolism. At least two transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been found for this gene.
PMEL	This gene encodes a melanocyte-specific type I transmembrane glycoprotein. The encoded protein is enriched in melanosomes, which are the melanin-producing organelles in melanocytes, and plays an essential role in the structural organization of premelanosomes. This protein is involved in generating internal matrix fibers that define the transition from Stage I to Stage II melanosomes. This protein undergoes a complex pattern of prosttranslational processing and modification that is essential to the proper functioning of the protein. A secreted form of this protein that is released by proteolytic ectodomain shedding may be used as a melanoma-specific serum marker. Alternate splicing results in multiple transcript variants.
PMM2	The protein encoded by this gene catalyzes the isomerization of mannose 6-phosphate to mannose 1-phosphate, which is a precursor to GDP-mannose necessary for the synthesis of dolichol-P-oligosaccharides. Mutations in this gene have been shown to cause defects in glycoprotein biosynthesis, which manifests as carbohydrate-deficient glycoprotein syndrome type I.
PMP2	The protein encoded by this gene localizes to myelin sheaths of the peripheral nervous system. The encoded protein can bind both the membrane layers of the sheaths and monomeric lipids, and is thought to provide stability to the sheath. A defect in this gene was shown to be a cause of dominant demyelinating CMT neuropathy.
PMP22	This gene encodes an integral membrane protein that is a major component of myelin in the peripheral nervous system. Studies suggest two alternately used promoters drive tissue-specific expression. Various mutations of this gene are causes of Charcot-Marie-Tooth disease Type IA, Dejerine-Sottas syndrome, and hereditary neuropathy with liability to pressure palsies. Alternative splicing results in multiple transcript variants.
PNCK	PNCK is a member of the calcium/calmodulin-dependent protein kinase family of protein serine/threonine kinases (see CAMK1; MIM 604998) (Gardner et al., 2000
PNLIP	This gene encodes a member of the lipase family of proteins. The encoded enzyme is secreted by the pancreas and hydrolyzes triglycerides in the small intestine, and is essential for the efficient digestion of dietary fats. Inhibition of the encoded enzyme may prevent high-fat diet-induced obesity in mice and result in weight loss in human patients with obesity. Mutations in this gene cause congenital pancreatic lipase deficiency, a rare disorder characterized by steatorrhea.
PNMT	The product of this gene catalyzes the last step of the catecholamine biosynthesis pathway, which methylates norepinephrine to form epinephrine (adrenaline). The enzyme also has beta-carboline 2N-methyltransferase activity. This gene is thought to play a key step in regulating epinephrine production. Alternatively spliced transcript variants have been found for this gene.
PNP	This gene encodes an enzyme which reversibly catalyzes the phosphorolysis of purine nucleosides. The enzyme is trimeric, containing three identical subunits. Mutations which result in nucleoside phosphorylase deficiency result in defective T-cell (cell-mediated) immunity but can also affect B-cell immunity and antibody responses. Neurologic disorders may also be apparent in patients with immune defects. A known polymorphism at aa position 51 that does not affect enzyme activity has been described. A pseudogene has been identified on chromosome 2.
PNPLA2	This gene encodes an enzyme which catalyzes the first step in the hydrolysis of triglycerides in adipose tissue. Mutations in this gene are associated with neutral lipid storage disease with myopathy.
PNPLA6	This gene encodes a phospholipase that deacetylates intracellular phosphatidylcholine to produce glycerophosphocholine. It is thought to function in neurite outgrowth and process elongation during neuronal differentiation. The protein is anchored to the cytoplasmic face of the endoplasmic reticulum in both neurons and non-neuronal cells. Mutations in this gene result in autosomal recessive spastic paraplegia, and the protein is the target for neurodegeneration induced by organophosphorus compounds and chemical warfare agents. Multiple transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been found for this gene.
PNPLA8	This gene encodes a member of the patatin-like phospholipase domain containing protein family. Members of this family are phospholipases which catalyze the cleavage of fatty acids from membrane phospholipids. The product of this gene is a calcium-independent phospholipase. Mutations in this gene have been associated with mitochondrial myopathy with lactic acidosis. Multiple transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been found for this gene.
PNPO	The enzyme encoded by this gene catalyzes the terminal, rate-limiting step in the synthesis of pyridoxal 5'-phosphate, also known as vitamin B6. Vitamin B6 is a required co-factor for enzymes involved in both homocysteine metabolism and synthesis of neurotransmitters such as catecholamine. Mutations in this gene result in pyridoxamine 5'-phosphate oxidase (PNPO) deficiency, a form of neonatal epileptic encephalopathy.
POLA1	This gene encodes the catalytic subunit of DNA polymerase, which together with a regulatory and two primase subunits, forms the DNA polymerase alpha complex. The catalytic subunit plays an essential role in the initiation of DNA replication.
POLB	The protein encoded by this gene is a DNA polymerase involved in base excision and repair, also called gap-filling DNA synthesis. The encoded protein, acting as a monomer, is normally found in the cytoplasm, but it translocates to the nucleus upon DNA damage. Several transcript variants of this gene exist, but the full-length nature of only one has been described to date.
POLD1	This gene encodes the 125-kDa catalytic subunit of DNA polymerase delta. DNA polymerase delta possesses both polymerase and 3' to 5' exonuclease activity and plays a critical role in DNA replication and repair. Alternatively spliced transcript variants have been observed for this gene, and a pseudogene of this gene is located on the long arm of chromosome 6.
POLG	Mitochondrial DNA polymerase is heterotrimeric, consisting of a homodimer of accessory subunits plus a catalytic subunit. The protein encoded by this gene is the catalytic subunit of mitochondrial DNA polymerase. The encoded protein contains a polyglutamine tract near its N-terminus that may be polymorphic. Defects in this gene are a cause of progressive external ophthalmoplegia with mitochondrial DNA deletions 1 (PEOA1), sensory ataxic neuropathy dysarthria and ophthalmoparesis (SANDO), Alpers-Huttenlocher syndrome (AHS), and mitochondrial neurogastrointestinal encephalopathy syndrome (MNGIE). Two transcript variants encoding the same protein have been found for this gene.
POLH	This gene encodes a member of the Y family of specialized DNA polymerases. It copies undamaged DNA with a lower fidelity than other DNA-directed polymerases. However, it accurately replicates UV-damaged DNA; when thymine dimers are present, this polymerase inserts the complementary nucleotides in the newly synthesized DNA, thereby bypassing the lesion and suppressing the mutagenic effect of UV-induced DNA damage. This polymerase is thought to be involved in hypermutation during immunoglobulin class switch recombination. Mutations in this gene result in XPV, a variant type of xeroderma pigmentosum. Several transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been found for this gene.
POLI	The protein encoded by this gene is an error-prone DNA polymerase involved in DNA repair. The encoded protein promotes DNA synthesis across lesions in the template DNA, which other polymerases cannot do. The encoded polymerase inserts deoxynucleotides across lesions and then relies on DNA polymerase zeta to extend the nascent DNA strand to bypass the lesion.
POLK	This gene encodes a member of the DNA polymerase type-Y family of proteins. The encoded protein is a specialized DNA polymerase that catalyzes translesion DNA synthesis, which allows DNA replication in the presence of DNA lesions. Human cell lines lacking a functional copy of this gene exhibit impaired genome integrity and enhanced susceptibility to oxidative damage. Mutations in this gene that impair enzyme activity may be associated with prostate cancer in human patients.
POLL	This gene encodes a DNA polymerase. DNA polymerases catalyze DNA-template-directed extension of the 3'-end of a DNA strand. This particular polymerase, which is a member of the X family of DNA polymerases, likely plays a role in non-homologous end joining and other DNA repair processes. Alternatively spliced transcript variants have been described.
POLM	Gap-filling polymerase involved in repair of DNA double-strand breaks by non-homologous end joining (NHEJ). Participates in immunoglobulin (Ig) light chain gene rearrangement in V(D)J recombination.
POLN	This gene encodes a DNA polymerase type-A family member. The encoded protein plays a role in DNA repair and homologous recombination. This gene shares its 5' exons with some transcripts from overlapping GeneID: 79441, which encodes an augmentin-like protein complex subunit.
POLQ	DNA polymerase that promotes microhomology-mediated end-joining (MMEJ), an alternative non-homologous end-joining (NHEJ) machinery triggered in response to double-strand breaks in DNA .
POLR1A	The protein encoded by this gene is the largest subunit of the RNA polymerase I complex. The encoded protein represents the catalytic subunit of the complex, which transcribes DNA into ribosomal RNA precursors. Defects in this gene are a cause of the Cincinnati type of acrofacial dysostosis.
POLR2A	This gene encodes the largest subunit of RNA polymerase II, the polymerase responsible for synthesizing messenger RNA in eukaryotes. The product of this gene contains a carboxy terminal domain composed of heptapeptide repeats that are essential for polymerase activity. These repeats contain serine and threonine residues that are phosphorylated in actively transcribing RNA polymerase. In addition, this subunit, in combination with several other polymerase subunits, forms the DNA binding domain of the polymerase, a groove in which the DNA template is transcribed into RNA.
POLRMT	This gene encodes a mitochondrial DNA-directed RNA polymerase. The gene product is responsible for mitochondrial gene expression as well as for providing RNA primers for initiation of replication of the mitochondrial genome. Although this polypeptide has the same function as the three nuclear DNA-directed RNA polymerases, it is more closely related to RNA polymerases of phage and mitochondrial polymerases of lower eukaryotes.
POMGNT1	This gene encodes a type II transmembrane protein that resides in the Golgi apparatus. It participates in O-mannosyl glycosylation and is specific for alpha linked terminal mannose. Mutations in this gene may be associated with muscle-eye-brain disease and several congenital muscular dystrophies. Alternatively spliced transcript variants that encode different protein isoforms have been described.
PON1	This gene encodes a member of the paraoxonase family of enzymes and exhibits lactonase and ester hydrolase activity. Following synthesis in the kidney and liver, the enzyme is secreted into the circulation, where it binds to high density lipoprotein (HDL) particles and hydrolyzes thiolactones and xenobiotics, including paraoxon, a metabolite of the insecticide parathion. Polymorphisms in this gene may be associated with coronary artery disease and diabetic retinopathy. The gene is found in a cluster of three related paraoxonase genes on chromosome 7.
POR	This gene encodes an endoplasmic reticulum membrane oxidoreductase with an FAD-binding domain and a flavodoxin-like domain. The protein binds two cofactors, FAD and FMN, which allow it to donate electrons directly from NADPH to all microsomal P450 enzymes. Mutations in this gene have been associated with various diseases, including apparent combined P450C17 and P450C21 deficiency, amenorrhea and disordered steroidogenesis, congenital adrenal hyperplasia and Antley-Bixler syndrome.
PORCN	This gene belongs to the evolutionarily conserved porcupine (Porc) gene family. Genes of the porcupine family encode endoplasmic reticulum proteins with multiple transmembrane domains. Porcupine proteins are involved in the processing of Wnt (wingless and int homologue) proteins. Disruption of this gene is associated with focal dermal hypoplasia, and the encoded protein has been implicated in cancer. Multiple alternatively spliced transcript variants encoding distinct isoforms have been observed.
POT1	This gene is a member of the telombin family and encodes a nuclear protein involved in telomere maintenance. Specifically, this protein functions as a member of a multi-protein complex that binds to the TTAGGG repeats of telomeres, regulating telomere length and protecting chromosome ends from illegitimate recombination, catastrophic chromosome instability, and abnormal chromosome segregation. Increased transcriptional expression of this gene is associated with stomach carcinogenesis and its progression. Alternatively spliced transcript variants have been described.
POU2F1	The OCT1 transcription factor was among the first identified members of the POU transcription factor family (summarized by Sturm et al., 1993
POU2F2	The protein encoded by this gene is a homeobox-containing transcription factor of the POU domain family. The encoded protein binds the octamer sequence 5'-ATTTGCAT-3', a common transcription factor binding site in immunoglobulin gene promoters. Several transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been found for this gene.
POU3F2	This gene encodes a member of the POU-III class of neural transcription factors. The encoded protein is involved in neuronal differentiation and enhances the activation of corticotropin-releasing hormone regulated genes. Overexpression of this protein is associated with an increase in the proliferation of melanoma cells.
POU3F3	This gene encodes a POU-domain containing protein that functions as a transcription factor. The encoded protein recognizes an octamer sequence in the DNA of target genes. This protein may play a role in development of the nervous system.
POU5F1	This gene encodes a transcription factor containing a POU homeodomain that plays a key role in embryonic development and stem cell pluripotency. Aberrant expression of this gene in adult tissues is associated with tumorigenesis. This gene can participate in a translocation with the Ewing's sarcoma gene on chromosome 21, which also leads to tumor formation. Alternative splicing, as well as usage of alternative AUG and non-AUG translation initiation codons, results in multiple isoforms. One of the AUG start codons is polymorphic in human populations. Related pseudogenes have been identified on chromosomes 1, 3, 8, 10, and 12.
PPARA	Peroxisome proliferators include hypolipidemic drugs, herbicides, leukotriene antagonists, and plasticizers; this term arises because they induce an increase in the size and number of peroxisomes. Peroxisomes are subcellular organelles found in plants and animals that contain enzymes for respiration and for cholesterol and lipid metabolism. The action of peroxisome proliferators is thought to be mediated via specific receptors, called PPARs, which belong to the steroid hormone receptor superfamily. PPARs affect the expression of target genes involved in cell proliferation, cell differentiation and in immune and inflammation responses. Three closely related subtypes (alpha, beta/delta, and gamma) have been identified. This gene encodes the subtype PPAR-alpha, which is a nuclear transcription factor. Multiple alternatively spliced transcript variants have been described for this gene, although the full-length nature of only two has been determined.
PPARD	This gene encodes a member of the peroxisome proliferator-activated receptor (PPAR) family. The encoded protein is thought to function as an integrator of transcriptional repression and nuclear receptor signaling. It may inhibit the ligand-induced transcriptional activity of peroxisome proliferator activated receptors alpha and gamma, though evidence for this effect is inconsistent. Expression of this gene in colorectal cancer cells may be variable but is typically relatively low. Knockout studies in mice suggested a role for this protein in myelination of the corpus callosum, lipid metabolism, differentiation, and epidermal cell proliferation. Alternative splicing results in multiple transcript variants encoding distinct protein isoforms.
PPARG	This gene encodes a member of the peroxisome proliferator-activated receptor (PPAR) subfamily of nuclear receptors. PPARs form heterodimers with retinoid X receptors (RXRs) and these heterodimers regulate transcription of various genes. Three subtypes of PPARs are known: PPAR-alpha, PPAR-delta, and PPAR-gamma. The protein encoded by this gene is PPAR-gamma and is a regulator of adipocyte differentiation. Additionally, PPAR-gamma has been implicated in the pathology of numerous diseases including obesity, diabetes, atherosclerosis and cancer. Alternatively spliced transcript variants that encode different isoforms have been described.
PPARGC1A	The protein encoded by this gene is a transcriptional coactivator that regulates the genes involved in energy metabolism. This protein interacts with PPARgamma, which permits the interaction of this protein with multiple transcription factors. This protein can interact with, and regulate the activities of, cAMP response element binding protein (CREB) and nuclear respiratory factors (NRFs). It provides a direct link between external physiological stimuli and the regulation of mitochondrial biogenesis, and is a major factor that regulates muscle fiber type determination. This protein may be also involved in controlling blood pressure, regulating cellular cholesterol homoeostasis, and the development of obesity.
PPAT	The protein encoded by this gene is a member of the purine/pyrimidine phosphoribosyltransferase family. It is a regulatory allosteric enzyme that catalyzes the first step of de novo purine nucleotide biosythetic pathway. This gene and PAICS/AIRC gene, a bifunctional enzyme catalyzing steps six and seven of this pathway, are located in close proximity on chromosome 4, and divergently transcribed from an intergenic region.
PPIA	This gene encodes a member of the peptidyl-prolyl cis-trans isomerase (PPIase) family. PPIases catalyze the cis-trans isomerization of proline imidic peptide bonds in oligopeptides and accelerate the folding of proteins. The encoded protein is a cyclosporin binding-protein and may play a role in cyclosporin A-mediated immunosuppression. The protein can also interact with several HIV proteins, including p55 gag, Vpr, and capsid protein, and has been shown to be necessary for the formation of infectious HIV virions. Multiple pseudogenes that map to different chromosomes have been reported.
PPIB	The protein encoded by this gene is a cyclosporine-binding protein and is mainly located within the endoplasmic reticulum. It is associated with the secretory pathway and released in biological fluids. This protein can bind to cells derived from T- and B-lymphocytes, and may regulate cyclosporine A-mediated immunosuppression. Variants have been identified in this protein that give rise to recessive forms of osteogenesis imperfecta.
PPIC	The protein encoded by this gene is a member of the peptidyl-prolyl cis-trans isomerase (PPIase)) family. PPIases catalyze the cis-trans isomerization of proline imidic peptide bonds in oligopeptides and accelerate the folding of proteins. Similar to other PPIases, this protein can bind immunosuppressant cyclosporin A.
PPID	The protein encoded by this gene is a member of the peptidyl-prolyl cis-trans isomerase (PPIase) family. PPIases catalyze the cis-trans isomerization of proline imidic peptide bonds in oligopeptides and accelerate the folding of proteins. This protein has been shown to possess PPIase activity and, similar to other family members, can bind to the immunosuppressant cyclosporin A.
PPIF	The protein encoded by this gene is a member of the peptidyl-prolyl cis-trans isomerase (PPIase) family. PPIases catalyze the cis-trans isomerization of proline imidic peptide bonds in oligopeptides and accelerate the folding of proteins. This protein is part of the mitochondrial permeability transition pore in the inner mitochondrial membrane. Activation of this pore is thought to be involved in the induction of apoptotic and necrotic cell death.
PPIG	PPIase that catalyzes the cis-trans isomerization of proline imidic peptide bonds in oligopeptides and may therefore assist protein folding . May be implicated in the folding, transport, and assembly of proteins. May play an important role in the regulation of pre-mRNA splicing.
PPIP5K1	This gene encodes a dual functional inositol kinase. The encoded enzyme converts inositol hexakisphosphate to diphosphoinositol pentakisphosphate and diphosphoinositol pentakisphosphate to bis-diphosphoinositol tetrakisphosphate. This protein may be important for intracellular signaling pathways. Alternate splicing results in multiple transcript variants. A pseudogene of this gene is found on chromosome 15.
PPM1A	The protein encoded by this gene is a member of the PP2C family of Ser/Thr protein phosphatases. PP2C family members are known to be negative regulators of cell stress response pathways. This phosphatase dephosphorylates, and negatively regulates the activities of, MAP kinases and MAP kinase kinases. It has been shown to inhibit the activation of p38 and JNK kinase cascades induced by environmental stresses. This phosphatase can also dephosphorylate cyclin-dependent kinases, and thus may be involved in cell cycle control. Overexpression of this phosphatase is reported to activate the expression of the tumor suppressor gene TP53/p53, which leads to G2/M cell cycle arrest and apoptosis. Three alternatively spliced transcript variants encoding distinct isoforms have been described.
PPM1B	The protein encoded by this gene is a member of the PP2C family of Ser/Thr protein phosphatases. PP2C family members are known to be negative regulators of cell stress response pathways. This phosphatase has been shown to dephosphorylate cyclin-dependent kinases (CDKs), and thus may be involved in cell cycle control. Overexpression of this phosphatase is reported to cause cell-growth arrest or cell death. Alternative splicing results in multiple transcript variants encoding different isoforms. Additional transcript variants have been described, but currently do not represent full-length sequences.
PPM1D	The protein encoded by this gene is a member of the PP2C family of Ser/Thr protein phosphatases. PP2C family members are known to be negative regulators of cell stress response pathways. The expression of this gene is induced in a p53-dependent manner in response to various environmental stresses. While being induced by tumor suppressor protein TP53/p53, this phosphatase negatively regulates the activity of p38 MAP kinase, MAPK/p38, through which it reduces the phosphorylation of p53, and in turn suppresses p53-mediated transcription and apoptosis. This phosphatase thus mediates a feedback regulation of p38-p53 signaling that contributes to growth inhibition and the suppression of stress induced apoptosis. This gene is located in a chromosomal region known to be amplified in breast cancer. The amplification of this gene has been detected in both breast cancer cell line and primary breast tumors, which suggests a role of this gene in cancer development.
PPM1G	The protein encoded by this gene is a member of the PP2C family of Ser/Thr protein phosphatases. PP2C family members are known to be negative regulators of cell stress response pathways. This phosphatase is found to be responsible for the dephosphorylation of Pre-mRNA splicing factors, which is important for the formation of functional spliceosome. Studies of a similar gene in mice suggested a role of this phosphatase in regulating cell cycle progression.
PPME1	This gene encodes a protein phosphatase methylesterase localized to the nucleus. The encoded protein acts on the protein phosphatase-2A catalytic subunit and supports the ERK pathway through dephosphorylation of regulatory proteins. It plays a role in malignant glioma progression. Alternative splicing results in multiple transcript variants.
PPOX	This gene encodes the penultimate enzyme of heme biosynthesis, which catalyzes the 6-electron oxidation of protoporphyrinogen IX to form protoporphyrin IX. Mutations in this gene cause variegate porphyria, an autosomal dominant disorder of heme metabolism resulting from a deficiency in protoporphyrinogen oxidase, an enzyme located on the inner mitochondrial membrane. Alternatively spliced transcript variants encoding the same protein have been identified.
PPP1CA	The protein encoded by this gene is one of the three catalytic subunits of protein phosphatase 1 (PP1). PP1 is a serine/threonine specific protein phosphatase known to be involved in the regulation of a variety of cellular processes, such as cell division, glycogen metabolism, muscle contractility, protein synthesis, and HIV-1 viral transcription. Increased PP1 activity has been observed in the end stage of heart failure. Studies in both human and mice suggest that PP1 is an important regulator of cardiac function. Mouse studies also suggest that PP1 functions as a suppressor of learning and memory. Three alternatively spliced transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been found for this gene.
PPP1CC	The protein encoded by this gene belongs to the protein phosphatase family, PP1 subfamily. PP1 is an ubiquitous serine/threonine phosphatase that regulates many cellular processes, including cell division. It is expressed in mammalian cells as three closely related isoforms, alpha, beta/delta and gamma, which have distinct localization patterns. This gene encodes the gamma isozyme. Alternatively spliced transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been found for this gene.
PPP2CA	This gene encodes the phosphatase 2A catalytic subunit. Protein phosphatase 2A is one of the four major Ser/Thr phosphatases, and it is implicated in the negative control of cell growth and division. It consists of a common heteromeric core enzyme, which is composed of a catalytic subunit and a constant regulatory subunit, that associates with a variety of regulatory subunits. This gene encodes an alpha isoform of the catalytic subunit.
PPP2R2A	The product of this gene belongs to the phosphatase 2 regulatory subunit B family. Protein phosphatase 2 is one of the four major Ser/Thr phosphatases, and it is implicated in the negative control of cell growth and division. It consists of a common heteromeric core enzyme, which is composed of a catalytic subunit and a constant regulatory subunit, that associates with a variety of regulatory subunits. The B regulatory subunit might modulate substrate selectivity and catalytic activity. This gene encodes an alpha isoform of the regulatory subunit B55 subfamily. Alternatively spliced transcript variants have been described.
PPP2R5A	The product of this gene belongs to the phosphatase 2A regulatory subunit B family. Protein phosphatase 2A is one of the four major Ser/Thr phosphatases, and it is implicated in the negative control of cell growth and division. It consists of a common heteromeric core enzyme, which is composed of a catalytic subunit and a constant regulatory subunit, that associates with a variety of regulatory subunits. The B regulatory subunit might modulate substrate selectivity and catalytic activity. This gene encodes an alpha isoform of the regulatory subunit B56 subfamily. Alternative transcript variants encoding distinct isoforms have been found for this gene.
PPP3CA	Calcium-dependent, calmodulin-stimulated protein phosphatase which plays an essential role in the transduction of intracellular Ca(2+)-mediated signals .
PPP3CB	Calcium-dependent, calmodulin-stimulated protein phosphatase which plays an essential role in the transduction of intracellular Ca(2+)-mediated signals .
PPP5C	This gene encodes a serine/threonine phosphatase which is a member of the protein phosphatase catalytic subunit family. Proteins in this family participate in pathways regulated by reversible phosphorylation at serine and threonine residues; many of these pathways are involved in the regulation of cell growth and differentiation. The product of this gene has been shown to participate in signaling pathways in response to hormones or cellular stress, and elevated levels of this protein may be associated with breast cancer development. Alternative splicing results in multiple transcript variants.
PPT1	The protein encoded by this gene is a small glycoprotein involved in the catabolism of lipid-modified proteins during lysosomal degradation. The encoded enzyme removes thioester-linked fatty acyl groups such as palmitate from cysteine residues. Defects in this gene are a cause of infantile neuronal ceroid lipofuscinosis 1 (CLN1, or INCL) and neuronal ceroid lipofuscinosis 4 (CLN4). Two transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been found for this gene.
PPT2	This gene encodes a member of the palmitoyl-protein thioesterase family. The encoded glycosylated lysosomal protein has palmitoyl-CoA hydrolase activity in vitro, but does not hydrolyze palmitate from cysteine residues in proteins. Alternative splicing results in multiple transcript variants. Read-through transcription also exists between this gene and the downstream EGFL8 (EGF-like-domain, multiple 8) gene.
PRCP	This gene encodes a member of the peptidase S28 family of serine exopeptidases. The encoded preproprotein is proteolytically processed to generate the mature lysosomal prolylcarboxypeptidase. This enzyme cleaves C-terminal amino acids linked to proline in peptides such as angiotension II, III and des-Arg9-bradykinin. The cleavage occurs at acidic pH, but the enzyme activity is retained with some substrates at neutral pH. This enzyme has been shown to be an activator of the cell matrix-associated prekallikrein. The importance of angiotension II, one of the substrates of this enzyme, in regulating blood pressure and electrolyte balance suggests that this gene may be related to essential hypertension. A pseudogene of this gene has been identified on chromosome 2. Alternative splicing results in multiple transcript variants, at least one of which encodes an isoform that is proteolytically processed.
PRDM9	The protein encoded by this gene is a zinc finger protein with histone methyltransferase activity that catalyzes histone H3 lysine 4 trimethylation (H3K4me3) during meiotic prophase. This protein contains multiple domains, including a Kruppel-associated box (KRAB) domain, an SSX repression domain (SSXRD), a PRD1-BF1 and RIZ homologous region, a subclass of SET (PR/SET) domain, and a tandem array of C2H2 zinc fingers. The zinc finger array recognizes a short sequence motif, leading to local H3K4me3, and meiotic recombination hotspot activity. The observed allelic variation alters the DNA-binding sequence specificity of the protein, resulting in distinct meiotic recombination hotspots amongst individuals and populations. Multiple alternate alleles of this gene have been described.
PRDX1	This gene encodes a member of the peroxiredoxin family of antioxidant enzymes, which reduce hydrogen peroxide and alkyl hydroperoxides. The encoded protein may play an antioxidant protective role in cells, and may contribute to the antiviral activity of CD8(+) T-cells. This protein may have a proliferative effect and play a role in cancer development or progression. Four transcript variants encoding the same protein have been identified for this gene.
PRDX5	This gene encodes a member of the peroxiredoxin family of antioxidant enzymes, which reduce hydrogen peroxide and alkyl hydroperoxides. The encoded protein interacts with peroxisome receptor 1 and plays an antioxidant protective role in different tissues under normal conditions and during inflammatory processes. The use of alternate transcription start sites is thought to result in transcript variants that use different in-frame translational start codons to generate isoforms that are targeted to the mitochondrion (isoform L) or peroxisome/cytoplasm (isoform S). Multiple related pseudogenes have been defined for this gene.
PREP	The protein encoded by this gene is a cytosolic prolyl endopeptidase that cleaves peptide bonds on the C-terminal side of prolyl residues within peptides that are up to approximately 30 amino acids long. Prolyl endopeptidases have been reported to be involved in the maturation and degradation of peptide hormones and neuropeptides.
PREPL	The protein encoded by this gene belongs to the prolyl oligopeptidase subfamily of serine peptidases. Mutations in this gene have been associated with hypotonia-cystinuria syndrome, also known as the 2p21 deletion syndrome. Several alternatively spliced transcript variants encoding either the same or different isoforms have been described for this gene.
PRF1	This gene encodes a protein with structural similarities to complement component C9 that is important in immunity. This protein forms membrane pores that allow the release of granzymes and subsequent cytolysis of target cells. Whether pore formation occurs in the plasma membrane of target cells or in an endosomal membrane inside target cells is subject to debate. Mutations in this gene are associated with a variety of human disease including diabetes, multiple sclerosis, lymphomas, autoimmune lymphoproliferative syndrome (ALPS), aplastic anemia, and familial hemophagocytic lymphohistiocytosis type 2 (FHL2), a rare and lethal autosomal recessive disorder of early childhood.
PRKAA1	The protein encoded by this gene belongs to the ser/thr protein kinase family. It is the catalytic subunit of the 5'-prime-AMP-activated protein kinase (AMPK). AMPK is a cellular energy sensor conserved in all eukaryotic cells. The kinase activity of AMPK is activated by the stimuli that increase the cellular AMP/ATP ratio. AMPK regulates the activities of a number of key metabolic enzymes through phosphorylation. It protects cells from stresses that cause ATP depletion by switching off ATP-consuming biosynthetic pathways. Alternatively spliced transcript variants encoding distinct isoforms have been observed.
PRKAA2	The protein encoded by this gene is a catalytic subunit of the AMP-activated protein kinase (AMPK). AMPK is a heterotrimer consisting of an alpha catalytic subunit, and non-catalytic beta and gamma subunits. AMPK is an important energy-sensing enzyme that monitors cellular energy status. In response to cellular metabolic stresses, AMPK is activated, and thus phosphorylates and inactivates acetyl-CoA carboxylase (ACC) and beta-hydroxy beta-methylglutaryl-CoA reductase (HMGCR), key enzymes involved in regulating de novo biosynthesis of fatty acid and cholesterol. Studies of the mouse counterpart suggest that this catalytic subunit may control whole-body insulin sensitivity and is necessary for maintaining myocardial energy homeostasis during ischemia.
PRKAB1	The protein encoded by this gene is a regulatory subunit of the AMP-activated protein kinase (AMPK). AMPK is a heterotrimer consisting of an alpha catalytic subunit, and non-catalytic beta and gamma subunits. AMPK is an important energy-sensing enzyme that monitors cellular energy status. In response to cellular metabolic stresses, AMPK is activated, and thus phosphorylates and inactivates acetyl-CoA carboxylase (ACC) and beta-hydroxy beta-methylglutaryl-CoA reductase (HMGCR), key enzymes involved in regulating de novo biosynthesis of fatty acid and cholesterol. This subunit may be a positive regulator of AMPK activity. The myristoylation and phosphorylation of this subunit have been shown to affect the enzyme activity and cellular localization of AMPK. This subunit may also serve as an adaptor molecule mediating the association of the AMPK complex.
PRKAB2	The protein encoded by this gene is a regulatory subunit of the AMP-activated protein kinase (AMPK). AMPK is a heterotrimer consisting of an alpha catalytic subunit, and non-catalytic beta and gamma subunits. AMPK is an important energy-sensing enzyme that monitors cellular energy status. In response to cellular metabolic stresses, AMPK is activated, and thus phosphorylates and inactivates acetyl-CoA carboxylase (ACC) and beta-hydroxy beta-methylglutaryl-CoA reductase (HMGCR), key enzymes involved in regulating de novo biosynthesis of fatty acid and cholesterol. This subunit may be a positive regulator of AMPK activity. It is highly expressed in skeletal muscle and thus may have tissue-specific roles. Multiple alternatively spliced transcript variants have been found for this gene.
PRKACA	This gene encodes one of the catalytic subunits of protein kinase A, which exists as a tetrameric holoenzyme with two regulatory subunits and two catalytic subunits, in its inactive form. cAMP causes the dissociation of the inactive holoenzyme into a dimer of regulatory subunits bound to four cAMP and two free monomeric catalytic subunits. Four different regulatory subunits and three catalytic subunits have been identified in humans. cAMP-dependent phosphorylation of proteins by protein kinase A is important to many cellular processes, including differentiation, proliferation, and apoptosis. Constitutive activation of this gene caused either by somatic mutations, or genomic duplications of regions that include this gene, have been associated with hyperplasias and adenomas of the adrenal cortex and are linked to corticotropin-independent Cushing's syndrome. Alternative splicing results in multiple transcript variants encoding different isoforms. Tissue-specific isoforms that differ at the N-terminus have been described, and these isoforms may differ in the post-translational modifications that occur at the N-terminus of some isoforms.
PRKACB	The protein encoded by this gene is a member of the serine/threonine protein kinase family. The encoded protein is a catalytic subunit of cAMP (cyclic AMP)-dependent protein kinase, which mediates signalling though cAMP. cAMP signaling is important to a number of processes, including cell proliferaton and differentiation. Multiple alternatively spliced transcript variants encoding distinct isoforms have been observed.
PRKACG	Cyclic AMP-dependent protein kinase (PKA) consists of two catalytic subunits and a regulatory subunit dimer. This gene encodes the gamma form of its catalytic subunit. The gene is intronless and is thought to be a retrotransposon derived from the gene for the alpha form of the PKA catalytic subunit.
PRKAG1	The protein encoded by this gene is a regulatory subunit of the AMP-activated protein kinase (AMPK). AMPK is a heterotrimer consisting of an alpha catalytic subunit, and non-catalytic beta and gamma subunits. AMPK is an important energy-sensing enzyme that monitors cellular energy status. In response to cellular metabolic stresses, AMPK is activated, and thus phosphorylates and inactivates acetyl-CoA carboxylase (ACC) and beta-hydroxy beta-methylglutaryl-CoA reductase (HMGCR), key enzymes involved in regulating de novo biosynthesis of fatty acid and cholesterol. This subunit is one of the gamma regulatory subunits of AMPK. Alternatively spliced transcript variants encoding distinct isoforms have been observed.
PRKCA	Protein kinase C (PKC) is a family of serine- and threonine-specific protein kinases that can be activated by calcium and the second messenger diacylglycerol. PKC family members phosphorylate a wide variety of protein targets and are known to be involved in diverse cellular signaling pathways. PKC family members also serve as major receptors for phorbol esters, a class of tumor promoters. Each member of the PKC family has a specific expression profile and is believed to play a distinct role in cells. The protein encoded by this gene is one of the PKC family members. This kinase has been reported to play roles in many different cellular processes, such as cell adhesion, cell transformation, cell cycle checkpoint, and cell volume control. Knockout studies in mice suggest that this kinase may be a fundamental regulator of cardiac contractility and Ca(2+) handling in myocytes.
PRKCB	Protein kinase C (PKC) is a family of serine- and threonine-specific protein kinases that can be activated by calcium and second messenger diacylglycerol. PKC family members phosphorylate a wide variety of protein targets and are known to be involved in diverse cellular signaling pathways. PKC family members also serve as major receptors for phorbol esters, a class of tumor promoters. Each member of the PKC family has a specific expression profile and is believed to play a distinct role in cells. The protein encoded by this gene is one of the PKC family members. This protein kinase has been reported to be involved in many different cellular functions, such as B cell activation, apoptosis induction, endothelial cell proliferation, and intestinal sugar absorption. Studies in mice also suggest that this kinase may also regulate neuronal functions and correlate fear-induced conflict behavior after stress. Alternatively spliced transcript variants encoding distinct isoforms have been reported.
PRKCD	The protein encoded by this gene is a member of the protein kinase C family of serine- and threonine-specific protein kinases. The encoded protein is activated by diacylglycerol and is both a tumor suppressor and a positive regulator of cell cycle progression. Also, this protein can positively or negatively regulate apoptosis. Defects in this gene are a cause of autoimmune lymphoproliferative syndrome.
PRKCE	Protein kinase C (PKC) is a family of serine- and threonine-specific protein kinases that can be activated by calcium and the second messenger diacylglycerol. PKC family members phosphorylate a wide variety of protein targets and are known to be involved in diverse cellular signaling pathways. PKC family members also serve as major receptors for phorbol esters, a class of tumor promoters. Each member of the PKC family has a specific expression profile and is believed to play a distinct role in cells. The protein encoded by this gene is one of the PKC family members. This kinase has been shown to be involved in many different cellular functions, such as neuron channel activation, apoptosis, cardioprotection from ischemia, heat shock response, as well as insulin exocytosis. Knockout studies in mice suggest that this kinase is important for lipopolysaccharide (LPS)-mediated signaling in activated macrophages and may also play a role in controlling anxiety-like behavior.
PRKCG	Protein kinase C (PKC) is a family of serine- and threonine-specific protein kinases that can be activated by calcium and second messenger diacylglycerol. PKC family members phosphorylate a wide variety of protein targets and are known to be involved in diverse cellular signaling pathways. PKC also serve as major receptors for phorbol esters, a class of tumor promoters. Each member of the PKC family has a specific expression profile and is believed to play distinct roles in cells. The protein encoded by this gene is one of the PKC family members. This protein kinase is expressed solely in the brain and spinal cord and its localization is restricted to neurons. It has been demonstrated that several neuronal functions, including long term potentiation (LTP) and long term depression (LTD), specifically require this kinase. Knockout studies in mice also suggest that this kinase may be involved in neuropathic pain development. Defects in this protein have been associated with neurodegenerative disorder spinocerebellar ataxia-14 (SCA14). Two transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been found for this gene.
PRKCH	Protein kinase C (PKC) is a family of serine- and threonine-specific protein kinases that can be activated by calcium and the second messenger diacylglycerol. PKC family members phosphorylate a wide variety of protein targets and are known to be involved in diverse cellular signaling pathways. PKC family members also serve as major receptors for phorbol esters, a class of tumor promoters. Each member of the PKC family has a specific expression profile and is believed to play a distinct role in cells. The protein encoded by this gene is one of the PKC family members. It is a calcium-independent and phospholipids-dependent protein kinase. It is predominantly expressed in epithelial tissues and has been shown to reside specifically in the cell nucleus. This protein kinase can regulate keratinocyte differentiation by activating the MAP kinase MAPK13 (p38delta)-activated protein kinase cascade that targets CCAAT/enhancer-binding protein alpha (CEBPA). It is also found to mediate the transcription activation of the transglutaminase 1 (TGM1) gene. Mutations in this gene are associated with susceptibility to cerebral infarction.
PRKCI	This gene encodes a member of the protein kinase C (PKC) family of serine/threonine protein kinases. The PKC family comprises at least eight members, which are differentially expressed and are involved in a wide variety of cellular processes. This protein kinase is calcium-independent and phospholipid-dependent. It is not activated by phorbolesters or diacylglycerol. This kinase can be recruited to vesicle tubular clusters (VTCs) by direct interaction with the small GTPase RAB2, where this kinase phosphorylates glyceraldehyde-3-phosphate dehydrogenase (GAPD/GAPDH) and plays a role in microtubule dynamics in the early secretory pathway. This kinase is found to be necessary for BCL-ABL-mediated resistance to drug-induced apoptosis and therefore protects leukemia cells against drug-induced apoptosis. There is a single exon pseudogene mapped on chromosome X.
PRKCQ	Protein kinase C (PKC) is a family of serine- and threonine-specific protein kinases that can be activated by calcium and the second messenger diacylglycerol. PKC family members phosphorylate a wide variety of protein targets and are known to be involved in diverse cellular signaling pathways. PKC family members also serve as major receptors for phorbol esters, a class of tumor promoters. Each member of the PKC family has a specific expression profile and is believed to play a distinct role. The protein encoded by this gene is one of the PKC family members. It is a calcium-independent and phospholipid-dependent protein kinase. This kinase is important for T-cell activation. It is required for the activation of the transcription factors NF-kappaB and AP-1, and may link the T cell receptor (TCR) signaling complex to the activation of the transcription factors.
PRKCZ	Protein kinase C (PKC) zeta is a member of the PKC family of serine/threonine kinases which are involved in a variety of cellular processes such as proliferation, differentiation and secretion. Unlike the classical PKC isoenzymes which are calcium-dependent, PKC zeta exhibits a kinase activity which is independent of calcium and diacylglycerol but not of phosphatidylserine. Furthermore, it is insensitive to typical PKC inhibitors and cannot be activated by phorbol ester. Unlike the classical PKC isoenzymes, it has only a single zinc finger module. These structural and biochemical properties indicate that the zeta subspecies is related to, but distinct from other isoenzymes of PKC. Alternative splicing results in multiple transcript variants encoding different isoforms.
PRKD1	The protein encoded by this gene is a serine/threonine protein kinase involved in many cellular processes, including Golgi body membrane integrity and transport, cell migration and differentiation, MAPK8/JNK1 and Ras pathway signaling, MAPK1/3 (ERK1/2) pathway signaling, cell survival, and regulation of cell shape and adhesion.
PRKD2	The protein encoded by this gene belongs to the protein kinase D (PKD) family of serine/threonine protein kinases. This kinase can be activated by phorbol esters as well as by gastrin via the cholecystokinin B receptor (CCKBR) in gastric cancer cells. It can bind to diacylglycerol (DAG) in the trans-Golgi network (TGN) and may regulate basolateral membrane protein exit from TGN. Alternative splicing results in multiple transcript variants encoding different isoforms.
PRKD3	This gene belongs to the multigene protein kinase D family of serine/threonine kinases, which bind diacylglycerol and phorbol esters. Members of this family are characterized by an N-terminal regulatory domain comprised of a tandem repeat of cysteine-rich zinc-finger motifs and a pleckstrin domain. The C-terminal region contains the catalytic domain and is distantly related to calcium-regulated kinases. Catalytic activity of this enzyme promotes its nuclear localization. This protein has been implicated in a variety of functions including negative regulation of human airway epithelial barrier formation, growth regulation of breast and prostate cancer cells, and vesicle trafficking.
PRKDC	This gene encodes the catalytic subunit of the DNA-dependent protein kinase (DNA-PK). It functions with the Ku70/Ku80 heterodimer protein in DNA double strand break repair and recombination. The protein encoded is a member of the PI3/PI4-kinase family.
PRKG1	Mammals have three different isoforms of cyclic GMP-dependent protein kinase (Ialpha, Ibeta, and II). These PRKG isoforms act as key mediators of the nitric oxide/cGMP signaling pathway and are important components of many signal transduction processes in diverse cell types. This PRKG1 gene on human chromosome 10 encodes the soluble Ialpha and Ibeta isoforms of PRKG by alternative transcript splicing. A separate gene on human chromosome 4, PRKG2, encodes the membrane-bound PRKG isoform II. The PRKG1 proteins play a central role in regulating cardiovascular and neuronal functions in addition to relaxing smooth muscle tone, preventing platelet aggregation, and modulating cell growth. This gene is most strongly expressed in all types of smooth muscle, platelets, cerebellar Purkinje cells, hippocampal neurons, and the lateral amygdala. Isoforms Ialpha and Ibeta have identical cGMP-binding and catalytic domains but differ in their leucine/isoleucine zipper and autoinhibitory sequences and therefore differ in their dimerization substrates and kinase enzyme activity.
PRKG2	This gene encodes a protein that belongs to the serine/threonine protein kinase family of proteins. The encoded protein binds to and inhibits the activation of several receptor tyrosine kinases. The membrane-bound protein is a regulator of intestinal secretion, bone growth and renin secretion. Alternate splicing results in multiple transcript variants encoding distinct isoforms whose regulatory N-termini differ in length but whose C-terminal catalytic domains are identical.
PRKX	This gene encodes a serine threonine protein kinase that has similarity to the catalytic subunit of cyclic AMP dependent protein kinases. The encoded protein is developmentally regulated and may be involved in renal epithelial morphogenesis. This protein may also be involved in macrophage and granulocyte maturation. Abnormal recombination between this gene and a related pseudogene on chromosome Y is a frequent cause of sex reversal disorder in XX males and XY females. Pseudogenes of this gene are found on chromosomes X, 15 and Y.
PRLHR	PRLHR is a 7-transmembrane domain receptor for prolactin-releasing hormone (PRLH; MIM 602663) that is highly expressed in anterior pituitary (Ozawa et al., 2002
PRLR	This gene encodes a receptor for the anterior pituitary hormone, prolactin, and belongs to the type I cytokine receptor family. Prolactin-dependent signaling occurs as the result of ligand-induced dimerization of the prolactin receptor. Several alternatively spliced transcript variants encoding different membrane-bound and soluble isoforms have been described for this gene, which may function to modulate the endocrine and autocrine effects of prolactin in normal tissue and cancer.
PRMT1	This gene encodes a member of the protein arginine N-methyltransferase (PRMT) family. Post-translational modification of target proteins by PRMTs plays an important regulatory role in many biological processes, whereby PRMTs methylate arginine residues by transferring methyl groups from S-adenosyl-L-methionine to terminal guanidino nitrogen atoms. The encoded protein is a type I PRMT and is responsible for the majority of cellular arginine methylation activity. Increased expression of this gene may play a role in many types of cancer. Alternatively spliced transcript variants encoding multiple isoforms have been observed for this gene, and a pseudogene of this gene is located on the long arm of chromosome 5.
PRMT3	This gene belongs to the protein arginine methyltransferase (PRMT) family. The encoded enzyme catalyzes the methylation of guanidino nitrogens of arginyl residues of proteins. The enzyme acts on 40S ribosomal protein S2 (rpS2), which is its major in-vivo substrate, and is involved in the proper maturation of the 80S ribosome. Alternative splicing results in multiple transcript variants.
PRMT5	This gene encodes an enzyme that belongs to the methyltransferase family. The encoded protein catalyzes the transfer of methyl groups to the amino acid arginine, in target proteins that include histones, transcriptional elongation factors and the tumor suppressor p53. This gene plays a role in several cellular processes, including transcriptional regulation, and the assembly of small nuclear ribonucleoproteins. A pseudogene of this gene has been defined on chromosome 4. Alternative splicing results in multiple transcript variants encoding different isoforms.
PRMT6	The protein encoded by this gene belongs to the arginine N-methyltransferase family, which catalyze the sequential transfer of methyl group from S-adenosyl-L-methionine to the side chain nitrogens of arginine residues within proteins, to form methylated arginine derivatives and S-adenosyl-L-homocysteine. This protein can catalyze both, the formation of omega-N monomethylarginine and asymmetrical dimethylarginine, with a strong preference for the latter. It specifically mediates the asymmetric dimethylation of Arg2 of histone H3, and the methylated form represents a specific tag for epigenetic transcriptional repression. This protein also forms a complex with, and methylates DNA polymerase beta, resulting in stimulation of polymerase activity by enhancing DNA binding and processivity.
PRMT7	This gene encodes a member of the protein arginine N-methyltransferase family of proteins. The encoded enzyme transfers single methyl groups to arginine residues to generate monomethylarginines on histone proteins as well as other protein substrates. This enzyme plays a role in a wide range of biological processes, including neuronal differentiation, male germ line imprinting, small nuclear ribonucleoprotein biogenesis, and regulation of the Wnt signaling pathway. Mutations in this gene underlie multiple related syndromes in human patients characterized by intellectual disability, short stature and other features. The encoded protein may promote breast cancer cell invasion and metastasis in human patients.
PRMT8	Arginine methylation is a widespread posttranslational modification mediated by arginine methyltransferases, such as PRMT8. Arginine methylation is involved in a number of cellular processes, including DNA repair, RNA transcription, signal transduction, protein compartmentalization, and possibly protein translation (Lee et al., 2005
PRNP	The protein encoded by this gene is a membrane glycosylphosphatidylinositol-anchored glycoprotein that tends to aggregate into rod-like structures. The encoded protein contains a highly unstable region of five tandem octapeptide repeats. This gene is found on chromosome 20, approximately 20 kbp upstream of a gene which encodes a biochemically and structurally similar protein to the one encoded by this gene. Mutations in the repeat region as well as elsewhere in this gene have been associated with Creutzfeldt-Jakob disease, fatal familial insomnia, Gerstmann-Straussler disease, Huntington disease-like 1, and kuru. An overlapping open reading frame has been found for this gene that encodes a smaller, structurally unrelated protein, AltPrp. Alternative splicing results in multiple transcript variants.
PROC	This gene encodes a vitamin K-dependent plasma glycoprotein. The encoded protein is cleaved to its activated form by the thrombin-thrombomodulin complex. This activated form contains a serine protease domain and functions in degradation of the activated forms of coagulation factors V and VIII. Mutations in this gene have been associated with thrombophilia due to protein C deficiency, neonatal purpura fulminans, and recurrent venous thrombosis.
PROKR1	This gene encodes a member of the G-protein-coupled receptor family. The encoded protein binds to prokineticins (1 and 2), leading to the activation of MAPK and STAT signaling pathways. Prokineticins are protein ligands involved in angiogenesis and inflammation. The encoded protein is expressed in peripheral tissues such as those comprising the circulatory system, lungs, reproductive system, endocrine system and the gastrointestinal system. The protein may be involved in signaling in human fetal ovary during initiation of primordial follicle formation. Sequence variants in this gene may be associated with recurrent miscarriage.
PROKR2	Prokineticins are secreted proteins that can promote angiogenesis and induce strong gastrointestinal smooth muscle contraction. The protein encoded by this gene is an integral membrane protein and G protein-coupled receptor for prokineticins. The encoded protein is similar in sequence to GPR73, another G protein-coupled receptor for prokineticins.
PRPF4	The protein encoded by this gene is part of a heteromeric complex that binds U4, U5, and U6 small nuclear RNAs and is involved in pre-mRNA splicing. The encoded protein also is a mitotic checkpoint protein and a regulator of chemoresistance in human ovarian cancer. Several transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been found for this gene.
PRPF4B	Pre-mRNA splicing occurs in two sequential transesterification steps, and the protein encoded by this gene is thought to be involved in pre-mRNA splicing and in signal transduction. This protein belongs to a kinase family that includes serine/arginine-rich protein-specific kinases and cyclin-dependent kinases (CDKs). This protein is regarded as a CDK-like kinase (Clk) with homology to mitogen-activated protein kinases (MAPKs).
PRPS1	This gene encodes an enzyme that catalyzes the phosphoribosylation of ribose 5-phosphate to 5-phosphoribosyl-1-pyrophosphate, which is necessary for purine metabolism and nucleotide biosynthesis. Defects in this gene are a cause of phosphoribosylpyrophosphate synthetase superactivity, Charcot-Marie-Tooth disease X-linked recessive type 5 and Arts Syndrome. Two transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been found for this gene.
PRPSAP2	This gene encodes a protein that associates with the enzyme phosphoribosylpyrophosphate synthetase (PRS). PRS catalyzes the formation of phosphoribosylpyrophosphate which is a substrate for synthesis of purine and pyrimidine nucleotides, histidine, tryptophan and NAD. PRS exists as a complex with two catalytic subunits and two associated subunits. This gene encodes a non-catalytic associated subunit of PRS. Alternate splicing results in multiple transcript variants.
PRSS1	This gene encodes a trypsinogen, which is a member of the trypsin family of serine proteases. This enzyme is secreted by the pancreas and cleaved to its active form in the small intestine. It is active on peptide linkages involving the carboxyl group of lysine or arginine. Mutations in this gene are associated with hereditary pancreatitis. This gene and several other trypsinogen genes are localized to the T cell receptor beta locus on chromosome 7.
PRSS3	This gene encodes a trypsinogen, which is a member of the trypsin family of serine proteases. This enzyme is expressed in the brain and pancreas and is resistant to common trypsin inhibitors. It is active on peptide linkages involving the carboxyl group of lysine or arginine. This gene is localized to the locus of T cell receptor beta variable orphans on chromosome 9. Four transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been described for this gene.
PRSS8	This gene encodes a member of the peptidase S1 or chymotrypsin family of serine proteases. The encoded preproprotein is proteolytically processed to generate light and heavy chains that associate via a disulfide bond to form the heterodimeric enzyme. This enzyme is highly expressed in prostate epithelia and is one of several proteolytic enzymes found in seminal fluid. This protease exhibits trypsin-like substrate specificity, cleaving protein substrates at the carboxyl terminus of lysine or arginine residues. The encoded protease partially mediates proteolytic activation of the epithelial sodium channel, a regulator of sodium balance, and may also play a role in epithelial barrier formation.
PRTN3	Serine protease that degrades elastin, fibronectin, laminin, vitronectin, and collagen types I, III, and IV (in vitro) .
PSAP	This gene encodes a highly conserved preproprotein that is proteolytically processed to generate four main cleavage products including saposins A, B, C, and D. Each domain of the precursor protein is approximately 80 amino acid residues long with nearly identical placement of cysteine residues and glycosylation sites. Saposins A-D localize primarily to the lysosomal compartment where they facilitate the catabolism of glycosphingolipids with short oligosaccharide groups. The precursor protein exists both as a secretory protein and as an integral membrane protein and has neurotrophic activities. Mutations in this gene have been associated with Gaucher disease and metachromatic leukodystrophy. Alternative splicing results in multiple transcript variants, at least one of which encodes an isoform that is proteolytically processed.
PSCA	This gene encodes a glycosylphosphatidylinositol-anchored cell membrane glycoprotein. In addition to being highly expressed in the prostate it is also expressed in the bladder, placenta, colon, kidney, and stomach. This gene is up-regulated in a large proportion of prostate cancers and is also detected in cancers of the bladder and pancreas. This gene includes a polymorphism that results in an upstream start codon in some individuals; this polymorphism is thought to be associated with a risk for certain gastric and bladder cancers. Alternative splicing results in multiple transcript variants.
PSEN1	Alzheimer's disease (AD) patients with an inherited form of the disease carry mutations in the presenilin proteins (PSEN1; PSEN2) or in the amyloid precursor protein (APP). These disease-linked mutations result in increased production of the longer form of amyloid-beta (main component of amyloid deposits found in AD brains). Presenilins are postulated to regulate APP processing through their effects on gamma-secretase, an enzyme that cleaves APP. Also, it is thought that the presenilins are involved in the cleavage of the Notch receptor, such that they either directly regulate gamma-secretase activity or themselves are protease enzymes. Several alternatively spliced transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been identified for this gene, the full-length nature of only some have been determined.
PSEN2	Alzheimer's disease (AD) patients with an inherited form of the disease carry mutations in the presenilin proteins (PSEN1 or PSEN2) or the amyloid precursor protein (APP). These disease-linked mutations result in increased production of the longer form of amyloid-beta (main component of amyloid deposits found in AD brains). Presenilins are postulated to regulate APP processing through their effects on gamma-secretase, an enzyme that cleaves APP. Also, it is thought that the presenilins are involved in the cleavage of the Notch receptor such that, they either directly regulate gamma-secretase activity, or themselves act are protease enzymes. Two alternatively spliced transcript variants encoding different isoforms of PSEN2 have been identified.
PSENEN	Presenilins, which are components of the gamma-secretase protein complex, are required for intramembranous processing of some type I transmembrane proteins, such as the Notch proteins and the beta-amyloid precursor protein. Signaling by Notch receptors mediates a wide range of developmental cell fates. Processing of the beta-amyloid precursor protein generates neurotoxic amyloid beta peptides, the major component of senile plaques associated with Alzheimer's disease. This gene encodes a protein that is required for Notch pathway signaling, and for the activity and accumulation of gamma-secretase. Mutations resulting in haploinsufficiency for this gene cause familial acne inversa-2 (ACNINV2). Alternative splicing results in multiple transcript variants.
PSIP1	Transcriptional coactivator involved in neuroepithelial stem cell differentiation and neurogenesis. Involved in particular in lens epithelial cell gene regulation and stress responses. May play an important role in lens epithelial to fiber cell terminal differentiation. May play a protective role during stress-induced apoptosis. Isoform 2 is a more general and stronger transcriptional coactivator. Isoform 2 may also act as an adapter to coordinate pre-mRNA splicing. Cellular cofactor for lentiviral integration.
PSMB1	The proteasome is a multicatalytic proteinase complex with a highly ordered ring-shaped 20S core structure. The core structure is composed of 4 rings of 28 non-identical subunits; 2 rings are composed of 7 alpha subunits and 2 rings are composed of 7 beta subunits. Proteasomes are distributed throughout eukaryotic cells at a high concentration and cleave peptides in an ATP/ubiquitin-dependent process in a non-lysosomal pathway.  An essential function of a modified proteasome, the immunoproteasome, is the processing of class I MHC peptides. This gene encodes a member of the proteasome B-type family, also known as the T1B family, that is a 20S core beta subunit. This gene is tightly linked to the TBP (TATA-binding protein) gene in human and in mouse, and is transcribed in the opposite orientation in both species.
PSMB10	The proteasome is a multicatalytic proteinase complex with a highly ordered ring-shaped 20S core structure. The core structure is composed of 4 rings of 28 non-identical subunits; 2 rings are composed of 7 alpha subunits and 2 rings are composed of 7 beta subunits. Proteasomes are distributed throughout eukaryotic cells at a high concentration and cleave peptides in an ATP/ubiquitin-dependent process in a non-lysosomal pathway. An essential function of a modified proteasome, the immunoproteasome, is the processing of class I MHC peptides. This gene encodes a member of the proteasome B-type family, also known as the T1B family, that is a 20S core beta subunit. Proteolytic processing is required to generate a mature subunit. Expression of this gene is induced by gamma interferon, and this gene product replaces catalytic subunit 2 (proteasome beta 7 subunit) in the immunoproteasome.
PSMB11	Proteasomes generate peptides that are presented by major histocompatibility complex (MHC) I molecules to other cells of the immune system. Proteolysis is conducted by 20S proteasomes, complexes of 28 subunits arranged as a cylinder in 4 heteroheptameric rings: alpha-1 to -7, beta-1 to -7, beta-1 to -7, and alpha-1 to -7. The catalytic subunits are beta-1 (PSMB6; MIM 600307), beta-2 (PSMB7; MIM 604030), and beta-5 (PSMB5; MIM 600306). Three additional subunits, beta-1i (PSMB9; MIM 177045), beta-2i (PSMB10; MIM 176847), and beta-5i (PSMB8; MIM 177046), are induced by gamma-interferon (IFNG; MIM 147570) and are preferentially incorporated into proteasomes to make immunoproteasomes. PSMB11, or beta-5t, is a catalytic subunit expressed exclusively in cortical thymic epithelial cells (Murata et al., 2007
PSMB2	The proteasome is a multicatalytic proteinase complex with a highly ordered ring-shaped 20S core structure. The core structure is composed of 4 rings of 28 non-identical subunits; 2 rings are composed of 7 alpha subunits and 2 rings are composed of 7 beta subunits. Proteasomes are distributed throughout eukaryotic cells at a high concentration and cleave peptides in an ATP/ubiquitin-dependent process in a non-lysosomal pathway. An essential function of a modified proteasome, the immunoproteasome, is the processing of class I MHC peptides. This gene encodes a member of the proteasome B-type family, also known as the T1B family, that is a 20S core beta subunit. Multiple alternatively spliced transcript variants encoding distinct isoforms have been found for this gene.
PSMB3	The proteasome is a multicatalytic proteinase complex with a highly ordered ring-shaped 20S core structure. The core structure is composed of 4 rings of 28 non-identical subunits; 2 rings are composed of 7 alpha subunits and 2 rings are composed of 7 beta subunits. Proteasomes are distributed throughout eukaryotic cells at a high concentration and cleave peptides in an ATP/ubiquitin-dependent process in a non-lysosomal pathway. An essential function of a modified proteasome, the immunoproteasome, is the processing of class I MHC peptides. This gene encodes a member of the proteasome B-type family, also known as the T1B family, that is a 20S core beta subunit. The 26 S proteasome may be involved in trinucleotide repeat expansion, a phenomenon which is associated with many hereditary neurological diseases. Pseudogenes have been identified on chromosomes 2 and 12. Alternative splicing results in multiple transcript variants
PSMB5	The proteasome is a multicatalytic proteinase complex with a highly ordered ring-shaped 20S core structure. The core structure is composed of 4 rings of 28 non-identical subunits; 2 rings are composed of 7 alpha subunits and 2 rings are composed of 7 beta subunits. Proteasomes are distributed throughout eukaryotic cells at a high concentration and cleave peptides in an ATP/ubiquitin-dependent process in a non-lysosomal pathway. An essential function of a modified proteasome, the immunoproteasome, is the processing of class I MHC peptides. This gene encodes a member of the proteasome B-type family, also known as the T1B family, that is a 20S core beta subunit in the proteasome. This catalytic subunit is not present in the immunoproteasome and is replaced by catalytic subunit 3i (proteasome beta 8 subunit). Multiple transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been found for this gene.
PSMB6	The proteasome is a multicatalytic proteinase complex with a highly ordered ring-shaped 20S core structure. The core structure is composed of 4 rings of 28 non-identical subunits; 2 rings are composed of 7 alpha subunits and 2 rings are composed of 7 beta subunits. Proteasomes are distributed throughout eukaryotic cells at a high concentration and cleave peptides in an ATP/ubiquitin-dependent process in a non-lysosomal pathway. The encoded protein is a member of the proteasome B-type family, also known as the T1B family, and is a 20S core beta subunit in the proteasome. Alternatively spliced transcript variants encoding multiple isoforms have been observed for this gene.
PSMB7	The proteasome is a multicatalytic proteinase complex with a highly ordered ring-shaped 20S core structure. The core structure is composed of 4 rings of 28 non-identical subunits; 2 rings are composed of 7 alpha subunits and 2 rings are composed of 7 beta subunits. Proteasomes are distributed throughout eukaryotic cells at a high concentration and cleave peptides in an ATP/ubiquitin-dependent process in a non-lysosomal pathway. The encoded protein is a member of the proteasome B-type family, also known as the T1B family, and is a 20S core beta subunit in the proteasome. Expression of this catalytic subunit is downregulated by gamma interferon, and proteolytic processing is required to generate a mature subunit. A pseudogene of this gene is located on the long arm of chromosome 14.
PSMB8	The proteasome is a multicatalytic proteinase complex with a highly ordered ring-shaped 20S core structure. The core structure is composed of 4 rings of 28 non-identical subunits; 2 rings are composed of 7 alpha subunits and 2 rings are composed of 7 beta subunits. Proteasomes are distributed throughout eukaryotic cells at a high concentration and cleave peptides in an ATP/ubiquitin-dependent process in a non-lysosomal pathway. An essential function of a modified proteasome, the immunoproteasome, is the processing of class I MHC peptides. This gene encodes a member of the proteasome B-type family, also known as the T1B family, that is a 20S core beta subunit. This gene is located in the class II region of the MHC (major histocompatibility complex). Expression of this gene is induced by gamma interferon and this gene product replaces catalytic subunit 3 (proteasome beta 5 subunit) in the immunoproteasome. Proteolytic processing is required to generate a mature subunit. Two alternative transcripts encoding two isoforms have been identified; both isoforms are processed to yield the same mature subunit.
PSMB9	The proteasome is a multicatalytic proteinase complex with a highly ordered ring-shaped 20S core structure. The core structure is composed of 4 rings of 28 non-identical subunits; 2 rings are composed of 7 alpha subunits and 2 rings are composed of 7 beta subunits. Proteasomes are distributed throughout eukaryotic cells at a high concentration and cleave peptides in an ATP/ubiquitin-dependent process in a non-lysosomal pathway. An essential function of a modified proteasome, the immunoproteasome, is the processing of class I MHC peptides. This gene encodes a member of the proteasome B-type family, also known as the T1B family, that is a 20S core beta subunit. This gene is located in the class II region of the MHC (major histocompatibility complex). Expression of this gene is induced by gamma interferon and this gene product replaces catalytic subunit 1 (proteasome beta 6 subunit) in the immunoproteasome. Proteolytic processing is required to generate a mature subunit.
PSMD10	This gene encodes a subunit of the PA700/19S complex, which is the regulatory component of the 26S proteasome. The 26S proteosome complex is required for ubiquitin-dependent protein degradation. This protein is a non-ATPase subunit that may be involved in protein-protein interactions. Aberrant expression of this gene may paly a role in tumorigenesis. Two transcripts encoding different isoforms have been described. Pseudogenes have been identified on chromosomes 3 and 20.
PSMD14	This gene encodes a component of the 26S proteasome. The 26S proteasome is a large multiprotein complex that catalyzes the degradation of ubiquitinated intracellular proteins. The encoded protein is a component of the 19S regulatory cap complex of the 26S proteasome and mediates substrate deubiquitination. A pseudogene of this gene is also located on the long arm of chromosome 2.
PSMG1	Chaperone protein which promotes assembly of the 20S proteasome as part of a heterodimer with PSMG2. The PSMG1-PSMG2 heterodimer binds to the PSMA5 and PSMA7 proteasome subunits, promotes assembly of the proteasome alpha subunits into the heteroheptameric alpha ring and prevents alpha ring dimerization.
PTAFR	This gene encodes a seven-transmembrane G-protein-coupled receptor for platelet-activating factor (PAF) that localizes to lipid rafts and/or caveolae in the cell membrane. PAF (1-0-alkyl-2-acetyl-sn-glycero-3-phosphorylcholine) is a phospholipid that plays a significant role in oncogenic transformation, tumor growth, angiogenesis, metastasis, and pro-inflammatory processes. Binding of PAF to the PAF-receptor (PAFR) stimulates numerous signal transduction pathways including phospholipase C, D, A2, mitogen-activated protein kinases (MAPKs), and the phosphatidylinositol-calcium second messenger system. Following PAFR activation, cells become rapidly desensitized and this refractory state is dependent on PAFR phosphorylation, internalization, and down-regulation. Alternative splicing results in multiple transcript variants.
PTBP1	This gene belongs to the subfamily of ubiquitously expressed heterogeneous nuclear ribonucleoproteins (hnRNPs). The hnRNPs are RNA-binding proteins and they complex with heterogeneous nuclear RNA (hnRNA). These proteins are associated with pre-mRNAs in the nucleus and appear to influence pre-mRNA processing and other aspects of mRNA metabolism and transport. While all of the hnRNPs are present in the nucleus, some seem to shuttle between the nucleus and the cytoplasm. The hnRNP proteins have distinct nucleic acid binding properties. The protein encoded by this gene has four repeats of quasi-RNA recognition motif (RRM) domains that bind RNAs. This protein binds to the intronic polypyrimidine tracts that requires pre-mRNA splicing and acts via the protein degradation ubiquitin-proteasome pathway. It may also promote the binding of U2 snRNP to pre-mRNAs. This protein is localized in the nucleoplasm and it is also detected in the perinucleolar structure. Alternatively spliced transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been described.
PTEN	This gene was identified as a tumor suppressor that is mutated in a large number of cancers at high frequency. The protein encoded by this gene is a phosphatidylinositol-3,4,5-trisphosphate 3-phosphatase. It contains a tensin like domain as well as a catalytic domain similar to that of the dual specificity protein tyrosine phosphatases. Unlike most of the protein tyrosine phosphatases, this protein preferentially dephosphorylates phosphoinositide substrates. It negatively regulates intracellular levels of phosphatidylinositol-3,4,5-trisphosphate in cells and functions as a tumor suppressor by negatively regulating AKT/PKB signaling pathway. The use of a non-canonical (CUG) upstream initiation site produces a longer isoform that initiates translation with a leucine, and is thought to be preferentially associated with the mitochondrial inner membrane. This longer isoform may help regulate energy metabolism in the mitochondria. A pseudogene of this gene is found on chromosome 9. Alternative splicing and the use of multiple translation start codons results in multiple transcript variants encoding different isoforms.
PTGDR	This gene encodes a member of the guanine nucleotide-binding protein (G protein)-coupled receptor (GPCR) superfamily. The receptors are seven-pass transmembrane proteins that respond to extracellular cues and activate intracellular signal transduction pathways. This protein is reported to be a receptor for prostaglandin D2, which is a mediator of allergic inflammation and allergic airway inflammation in asthma. Alternative splicing results in multiple transcript variants.
PTGDR2	This gene encodes a G-protein-coupled receptor that is preferentially expressed in CD4+ effector T helper 2 (Th2) cells. This protein is a prostaglandin D2 receptor that mediates the pro-inflammatory chemotaxis of eosinophils, basophils, and Th2 lymphocytes generated during allergic inflammation. Single nucleotide polymorphisms in the 3' UTR of this gene have been associated with asthma susceptibility.
PTGDS	The protein encoded by this gene is a glutathione-independent prostaglandin D synthase that catalyzes the conversion of prostaglandin H2 (PGH2) to postaglandin D2 (PGD2). PGD2 functions as a neuromodulator as well as a trophic factor in the central nervous system. PGD2 is also involved in smooth muscle contraction/relaxation and is a potent inhibitor of platelet aggregation. This gene is preferentially expressed in brain. Studies with transgenic mice overexpressing this gene suggest that this gene may be also involved in the regulation of non-rapid eye movement sleep.
PTGER1	The protein encoded by this gene is a member of the G protein-coupled receptor family. This protein is one of four receptors identified for prostaglandin E2 (PGE2). Through a phosphatidylinositol-calcium second messenger system, G-Q proteins mediate this receptor's activity. Knockout studies in mice suggested a role of this receptor in mediating algesia and in regulation of blood pressure. Studies in mice also suggested that this gene may mediate adrenocorticotropic hormone response to bacterial endotoxin.
PTGER2	This gene encodes a receptor for prostaglandin E2, a metabolite of arachidonic acid which has different biologic activities in a wide range of tissues. Mutations in this gene are associated with aspirin-induced susceptibility to asthma.
PTGER3	The protein encoded by this gene is a member of the G-protein coupled receptor family. This protein is one of four receptors identified for prostaglandin E2 (PGE2). This receptor may have many biological functions, which involve digestion, nervous system, kidney reabsorption, and uterine contraction activities. Studies of the mouse counterpart suggest that this receptor may also mediate adrenocorticotropic hormone response as well as fever generation in response to exogenous and endogenous stimuli. Multiple transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been found for this gene.
PTGER4	The protein encoded by this gene is a member of the G-protein coupled receptor family. This protein is one of four receptors identified for prostaglandin E2 (PGE2). This receptor can activate T-cell factor signaling. It has been shown to mediate PGE2 induced expression of early growth response 1 (EGR1), regulate the level and stability of cyclooxygenase-2 mRNA, and lead to the phosphorylation of glycogen synthase kinase-3. Knockout studies in mice suggest that this receptor may be involved in the neonatal adaptation of circulatory system, osteoporosis, as well as initiation of skin immune responses.
PTGES	The protein encoded by this gene is a glutathione-dependent prostaglandin E synthase. The expression of this gene has been shown to be induced by proinflammatory cytokine interleukin 1 beta (IL1B). Its expression can also be induced by tumor suppressor protein TP53, and may be involved in TP53 induced apoptosis. Knockout studies in mice suggest that this gene may contribute to the pathogenesis of collagen-induced arthritis and mediate acute pain during inflammatory responses.
PTGES2	The protein encoded by this gene is a membrane-associated prostaglandin E synthase, which catalyzes the conversion of prostaglandin H2 to prostaglandin E2. This protein also has been shown to activate the transcription regulated by a gamma-interferon-activated transcription element (GATE). Multiple transcript variants have been found for this gene.
PTGES3	This gene encodes an enzyme that converts prostaglandin endoperoxide H2 (PGH2) to prostaglandin E2 (PGE2). This protein functions as a co-chaperone with heat shock protein 90 (HSP90), localizing to response elements in DNA and disrupting transcriptional activation complexes. Alternative splicing results in multiple transcript variants. There are multiple pseudogenes of this gene on several different chromosomes.
PTGFR	The protein encoded by this gene is member of the G-protein coupled receptor family. This protein is a receptor for prostaglandin F2-alpha (PGF2-alpha), which is known to be a potent luteolytic agent, and may also be involved in modulating intraocular pressure and smooth muscle contraction in uterus. Knockout studies in mice suggest that the interaction of PGF2-alpha with this receptor may initiate parturition in ovarian luteal cells and thus induce luteolysis. Two transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been found for this gene.
PTGIR	The protein encoded by this gene is a member of the G-protein coupled receptor family 1 and has been shown to be a receptor for prostacyclin. Prostacyclin, the major product of cyclooxygenase in macrovascular endothelium, elicits a potent vasodilation and inhibition of platelet aggregation through binding to this receptor.
PTGIS	This gene encodes a member of the cytochrome P450 superfamily of enzymes. The cytochrome P450 proteins are monooxygenases which catalyze many reactions involved in drug metabolism and synthesis of cholesterol, steroids and other lipids. However, this protein is considered a member of the cytochrome P450 superfamily on the basis of sequence similarity rather than functional similarity. This endoplasmic reticulum membrane protein catalyzes the conversion of prostglandin H2 to prostacyclin (prostaglandin I2), a potent vasodilator and inhibitor of platelet aggregation. An imbalance of prostacyclin and its physiological antagonist thromboxane A2 contribute to the development of myocardial infarction, stroke, and atherosclerosis.
PTGS1	This is one of two genes encoding similar enzymes that catalyze the conversion of arachinodate to prostaglandin. The encoded protein regulates angiogenesis in endothelial cells, and is inhibited by nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs such as aspirin. Based on its ability to function as both a cyclooxygenase and as a peroxidase, the encoded protein has been identified as a moonlighting protein. The protein may promote cell proliferation during tumor progression. Alternative splicing results in multiple transcript variants.
PTGS2	Prostaglandin-endoperoxide synthase (PTGS), also known as cyclooxygenase, is the key enzyme in prostaglandin biosynthesis, and acts both as a dioxygenase and as a peroxidase. There are two isozymes of PTGS: a constitutive PTGS1 and an inducible PTGS2, which differ in their regulation of expression and tissue distribution. This gene encodes the inducible isozyme. It is regulated by specific stimulatory events, suggesting that it is responsible for the prostanoid biosynthesis involved in inflammation and mitogenesis.
PTH1R	The protein encoded by this gene is a member of the G-protein coupled receptor family 2. This protein is a receptor for parathyroid hormone (PTH) and for parathyroid hormone-like hormone (PTHLH). The activity of this receptor is mediated by G proteins which activate adenylyl cyclase and also a phosphatidylinositol-calcium second messenger system. Defects in this receptor are known to be the cause of Jansen's metaphyseal chondrodysplasia (JMC), chondrodysplasia Blomstrand type (BOCD), as well as enchodromatosis. Two transcript variants encoding the same protein have been found for this gene.
PTHLH	The protein encoded by this gene is a member of the parathyroid hormone family. This hormone, via its receptor, PTHR1, regulates endochondral bone development and epithelial-mesenchymal interactions during the formation of the mammary glands and teeth. It is responsible for most cases of humoral hypercalcemia of malignancy, and mutations in this gene are associated with brachydactyly type E2 (BDE2). Alternatively spliced transcript variants have been found for this gene. There is also evidence for alternative translation initiation from non-AUG (CUG and GUG) start sites, downstream of the initiator AUG codon, resulting in nuclear forms of this hormone.
PTK2	This gene encodes a cytoplasmic protein tyrosine kinase which is found concentrated in the focal adhesions that form between cells growing in the presence of extracellular matrix constituents. The encoded protein is a member of the FAK subfamily of protein tyrosine kinases but lacks significant sequence similarity to kinases from other subfamilies. Activation of this gene may be an important early step in cell growth and intracellular signal transduction pathways triggered in response to certain neural peptides or to cell interactions with the extracellular matrix. Several transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been found for this gene.
PTK2B	This gene encodes a cytoplasmic protein tyrosine kinase which is involved in calcium-induced regulation of ion channels and activation of the map kinase signaling pathway. The encoded protein may represent an important signaling intermediate between neuropeptide-activated receptors or neurotransmitters that increase calcium flux and the downstream signals that regulate neuronal activity. The encoded protein undergoes rapid tyrosine phosphorylation and activation in response to increases in the intracellular calcium concentration, nicotinic acetylcholine receptor activation, membrane depolarization, or protein kinase C activation. This protein has been shown to bind CRK-associated substrate, nephrocystin, GTPase regulator associated with FAK, and the SH2 domain of GRB2. The encoded protein is a member of the FAK subfamily of protein tyrosine kinases but lacks significant sequence similarity to kinases from other subfamilies. Four transcript variants encoding two different isoforms have been found for this gene.
PTK6	The protein encoded by this gene is a cytoplasmic nonreceptor protein kinase which may function as an intracellular signal transducer in epithelial tissues. Overexpression of this gene in mammary epithelial cells leads to sensitization of the cells to epidermal growth factor and results in a partially transformed phenotype. Expression of this gene has been detected at low levels in some breast tumors but not in normal breast tissue. The encoded protein has been shown to undergo autophosphorylation. Alternative splicing results in multiple transcript variants.
PTP4A1	This gene encodes a member of a small class of prenylated protein tyrosine phosphatases (PTPs), which contain a PTP domain and a characteristic C-terminal prenylation motif. The encoded protein is a cell signaling molecule that plays regulatory roles in a variety of cellular processes, including cell proliferation and migration. The protein may also be involved in cancer development and metastasis. This tyrosine phosphatase is a nuclear protein, but may associate with plasma membrane by means of its prenylation motif. Pseudogenes related to this gene are located on chromosomes 1, 2, 5, 7, 11 and X.
PTP4A2	The protein encoded by this gene belongs to a small class of the protein tyrosine phosphatase (PTP) family. PTPs are cell signaling molecules that play regulatory roles in a variety of cellular processes. PTPs in this class contain a protein tyrosine phosphatase catalytic domain and a characteristic C-terminal prenylation motif. This PTP has been shown to primarily associate with plasmic and endosomal membrane through its C-terminal prenylation. This PTP was found to interact with the beta-subunit of Rab geranylgeranyltransferase II (beta GGT II), and thus may function as a regulator of GGT II activity. Overexpression of this gene in mammalian cells conferred a transformed phenotype, which suggested its role in tumorigenesis. Alternatively spliced transcript variants have been described. Related pseudogenes exist on chromosomes 11, 12 and 17.
PTP4A3	This gene encodes a member of the protein-tyrosine phosphatase family. Protein tyrosine phosphatases are cell signaling molecules that play regulatory roles in a variety of cellular processes. Studies of this class of protein tyrosine phosphatase in mice demonstrates that they are prenylated in vivo, suggesting their association with cell plasma membrane. The encoded protein may enhance cell proliferation, and overexpression of this gene has been implicated in tumor metastasis. Alternative splicing results in multiple transcript variants.
PTPMT1	Lipid phosphatase which dephosphorylates phosphatidylglycerophosphate (PGP) to phosphatidylglycerol (PG) (By similarity). PGP is an essential intermediate in the biosynthetic pathway of cardiolipin, a mitochondrial-specific phospholipid regulating the membrane integrity and activities of the organelle (By similarity). Has also been shown to display phosphatase activity toward phosphoprotein substrates, specifically mediates dephosphorylation of mitochondrial proteins, thereby playing an essential role in ATP production (By similarity). Has probably a preference for proteins phosphorylated on Ser and/or Thr residues compared to proteins phosphorylated on Tyr residues (By similarity). Probably involved in regulation of insulin secretion in pancreatic beta cells (By similarity). May prevent intrinsic apoptosis, probably by regulating mitochondrial membrane integrity .
PTPN1	The protein encoded by this gene is the founding member of the protein tyrosine phosphatase (PTP) family, which was isolated and identified based on its enzymatic activity and amino acid sequence. PTPs catalyze the hydrolysis of the phosphate monoesters specifically on tyrosine residues. Members of the PTP family share a highly conserved catalytic motif, which is essential for the catalytic activity. PTPs are known to be signaling molecules that regulate a variety of cellular processes including cell growth, differentiation, mitotic cycle, and oncogenic transformation. This PTP has been shown to act as a negative regulator of insulin signaling by dephosphorylating the phosphotryosine residues of insulin receptor kinase. This PTP was also reported to dephosphorylate epidermal growth factor receptor kinase, as well as JAK2 and TYK2 kinases, which implicated the role of this PTP in cell growth control, and cell response to interferon stimulation. Two transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been found for this gene.
PTPN11	The protein encoded by this gene is a member of the protein tyrosine phosphatase (PTP) family. PTPs are known to be signaling molecules that regulate a variety of cellular processes including cell growth, differentiation, mitotic cycle, and oncogenic transformation. This PTP contains two tandem Src homology-2 domains, which function as phospho-tyrosine binding domains and mediate the interaction of this PTP with its substrates. This PTP is widely expressed in most tissues and plays a regulatory role in various cell signaling events that are important for a diversity of cell functions, such as mitogenic activation, metabolic control, transcription regulation, and cell migration. Mutations in this gene are a cause of Noonan syndrome as well as acute myeloid leukemia.
PTPN12	The protein encoded by this gene is a member of the protein tyrosine phosphatase (PTP) family. PTPs are signaling molecules that regulate a variety of cellular processes including cell growth, differentiation, mitotic cycle, and oncogenic transformation. This PTP contains a C-terminal PEST motif, which serves as a protein-protein interaction domain, and may regulate protein intracellular half-life. This PTP was found to bind and dephosphorylate the product of the oncogene c-ABL and thus may play a role in oncogenesis. This PTP was also shown to interact with, and dephosphorylate, various products related to cytoskeletal structure and cell adhesion, such as p130 (Cas), CAKbeta/PTK2B, PSTPIP1, and paxillin. This suggests it has a regulatory role in controlling cell shape and mobility. Alternative splicing results in multiple transcript variants encoding distinct isoforms.
PTPN13	The protein encoded by this gene is a member of the protein tyrosine phosphatase (PTP) family. PTPs are signaling molecules that regulate a variety of cellular processes including cell growth, differentiation, mitotic cycle, and oncogenic transformation. This PTP is a large intracellular protein. It has a catalytic PTP domain at its C-terminus and two major structural domains: a region with five PDZ domains and a FERM domain that binds to plasma membrane and cytoskeletal elements. This PTP was found to interact with, and dephosphorylate, Fas receptor and IkappaBalpha through the PDZ domains. This suggests it has a role in Fas mediated programmed cell death. This PTP was also shown to interact with GTPase-activating protein, and thus may function as a regulator of Rho signaling pathways. Four alternatively spliced transcript variants, which encode distinct proteins, have been reported.
PTPN14	The protein encoded by this gene is a member of the protein tyrosine phosphatase (PTP) family. PTPs are known to be signaling molecules that regulate a variety of cellular processes including cell growth, differentiation, mitotic cycle, and oncogenic transformation. This PTP contains an N-terminal noncatalytic domain similar to that of band 4.1 superfamily cytoskeleton-associated proteins, which suggested the membrane or cytoskeleton localization of this protein. It appears to regulate lymphatic development in mammals, and a loss of function mutation has been found in a kindred with a lymphedema-choanal atresia.
PTPN18	The protein encoded by this gene is a member of the protein tyrosine phosphatase (PTP) family. PTPs are known to be signaling molecules that regulate a variety of cellular processes including cell growth, differentiation, the mitotic cycle, and oncogenic transformation. This PTP contains a PEST motif, which often serves as a protein-protein interaction domain, and may be related to protein intracellular half-live. This protein can differentially dephosphorylate autophosphorylated tyrosine kinases that are overexpressed in tumor tissues, and it appears to regulate HER2, a member of the epidermal growth factor receptor family of receptor tyrosine kinases. Two transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been found for this gene.
PTPN2	The protein encoded by this gene is a member of the protein tyrosine phosphatase (PTP) family. Members of the PTP family share a highly conserved catalytic motif, which is essential for the catalytic activity. PTPs are known to be signaling molecules that regulate a variety of cellular processes including cell growth, differentiation, mitotic cycle, and oncogenic transformation. Epidermal growth factor receptor and the adaptor protein Shc were reported to be substrates of this PTP, which suggested the roles in growth factor mediated cell signaling. Multiple alternatively spliced transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been found. Two highly related but distinctly processed pseudogenes that localize to chromosomes 1 and 13, respectively, have been reported.
PTPN22	This gene encodes of member of the non-receptor class 4 subfamily of the protein-tyrosine phosphatase family. The encoded protein is a lymphoid-specific intracellular phosphatase that associates with the molecular adapter protein CBL and may be involved in regulating CBL function in the T-cell receptor signaling pathway. Mutations in this gene may be associated with a range of autoimmune disorders including Type 1 Diabetes, rheumatoid arthritis, systemic lupus erythematosus and Graves' disease. Alternatively spliced transcript variants encoding distinct isoforms have been described.
PTPN3	The protein encoded by this gene is a member of the protein tyrosine phosphatase (PTP) family. PTPs are known to be signaling molecules that regulate a variety of cellular processes including cell growth, differentiation, mitotic cycle, and oncogenic transformation. This protein contains a C-terminal PTP domain and an N-terminal domain homologous to the band 4.1 superfamily of cytoskeletal-associated proteins. P97, a cell cycle regulator involved in a variety of membrane related functions, has been shown to be a substrate of this PTP. This PTP was also found to interact with, and be regulated by adaptor protein 14-3-3 beta. Several alternatively spliced transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been found for this gene.
PTPN4	The protein encoded by this gene is a member of the protein tyrosine phosphatase (PTP) family. PTPs are known to be signaling molecules that regulate a variety of cellular processes including cell growth, differentiation, mitotic cycle, and oncogenic transformation. This protein contains a C-terminal PTP domain and an N-terminal domain homologous to the band 4.1 superfamily of cytoskeletal-associated proteins. This PTP has been shown to interact with glutamate receptor delta 2 and epsilon subunits, and is thought to play a role in signalling downstream of the glutamate receptors through tyrosine dephosphorylation.
PTPN5	May regulate the activity of several effector molecules involved in synaptic plasticity and neuronal cell survival, including MAPKs, Src family kinases and NMDA receptors.
PTPN6	The protein encoded by this gene is a member of the protein tyrosine phosphatase (PTP) family. PTPs are known to be signaling molecules that regulate a variety of cellular processes including cell growth, differentiation, mitotic cycle, and oncogenic transformation. N-terminal part of this PTP contains two tandem Src homolog (SH2) domains, which act as protein phospho-tyrosine binding domains, and mediate the interaction of this PTP with its substrates. This PTP is expressed primarily in hematopoietic cells, and functions as an important regulator of multiple signaling pathways in hematopoietic cells. This PTP has been shown to interact with, and dephosphorylate a wide spectrum of phospho-proteins involved in hematopoietic cell signaling. Multiple alternatively spliced variants of this gene, which encode distinct isoforms, have been reported.
PTPN7	The protein encoded by this gene is a member of the protein tyrosine phosphatase (PTP) family. PTPs are known to be signaling molecules that regulate a variety of cellular processes including cell growth, differentiation, mitotic cycle, and oncogenic transformation. This gene is preferentially expressed in a variety of hematopoietic cells, and is an early response gene in lymphokine stimulated cells. The non-catalytic N-terminus of this PTP can interact with MAP kinases and suppress the MAP kinase activities. This PTP was shown to be involved in the regulation of T cell antigen receptor (TCR) signaling, which was thought to function through dephosphorylating the molecules related to MAP kinase pathway. Multiple alternatively spliced transcript variants have been found for this gene.
PTPN9	The protein encoded by this gene is a member of the protein tyrosine phosphatase (PTP) family. PTPs are known to be signaling molecules that regulate a variety of cellular processes including cell growth, differentiation, mitotic cycle, and oncogenic transformation. This PTP contains an N-terminal domain that shares a significant similarity with yeast SEC14, which is a protein that has phosphatidylinositol transfer activity and is required for protein secretion through the Golgi complex in yeast. This PTP was found to be activated by polyphosphoinositide, and is thought to be involved in signaling events regulating phagocytosis.
PTPRA	The protein encoded by this gene is a member of the protein tyrosine phosphatase (PTP) family. PTPs are known to be signaling molecules that regulate a variety of cellular processes including cell growth, differentiation, mitotic cycle, and oncogenic transformation. This PTP contains an extracellular domain, a single transmembrane segment and two tandem intracytoplasmic catalytic domains, and thus represents a receptor-type PTP. This PTP has been shown to dephosphorylate and activate Src family tyrosine kinases, and is implicated in the regulation of integrin signaling, cell adhesion and proliferation. Three alternatively spliced variants of this gene, which encode two distinct isoforms, have been reported.
PTPRB	The protein encoded by this gene is a member of the protein tyrosine phosphatase (PTP) family. PTPs are known to be signaling molecules that regulate a variety of cellular processes including cell growth, differentiation, mitotic cycle, and oncogenic transformation. This PTP contains an extracellular domain, a single transmembrane segment and one intracytoplasmic catalytic domain, thus belongs to receptor type PTP. The extracellular region of this PTP is composed of multiple fibronectin type_III repeats, which was shown to interact with neuronal receptor and cell adhesion molecules, such as contactin and tenascin C. This protein was also found to interact with sodium channels, and thus may regulate sodium channels by altering tyrosine phosphorylation status. The functions of the interaction partners of this protein implicate the roles of this PTP in cell adhesion, neurite growth, and neuronal differentiation. Alternate transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been found for this gene.
PTPRC	The protein encoded by this gene is a member of the protein tyrosine phosphatase (PTP) family. PTPs are known to be signaling molecules that regulate a variety of cellular processes including cell growth, differentiation, mitosis, and oncogenic transformation. This PTP contains an extracellular domain, a single transmembrane segment and two tandem intracytoplasmic catalytic domains, and thus is classified as a receptor type PTP. This PTP has been shown to be an essential regulator of T- and B-cell antigen receptor signaling. It functions through either direct interaction with components of the antigen receptor complexes, or by activating various Src family kinases required for the antigen receptor signaling. This PTP also suppresses JAK kinases, and thus functions as a regulator of cytokine receptor signaling. Alternatively spliced transcripts variants of this gene, which encode distinct isoforms, have been reported.
PTPRCAP	The protein encoded by this gene was identified as a transmembrane phosphoprotein specifically associated with tyrosine phosphatase PTPRC/CD45, a key regulator of T- and B-lymphocyte activation. The interaction with PTPRC may be required for the stable expression of this protein.
PTPRE	The protein encoded by this gene is a member of the protein tyrosine phosphatase (PTP) family. PTPs are known to be signaling molecules that regulate a variety of cellular processes including cell growth, differentiation, mitotic cycle, and oncogenic transformation. Several alternatively spliced transcript variants of this gene have been reported, at least two of which encode a receptor-type PTP that possesses a short extracellular domain, a single transmembrane region, and two tandem intracytoplasmic catalytic domains; another one encodes a PTP that contains a distinct hydrophilic N-terminus, and thus represents a nonreceptor-type isoform of this PTP. Studies of the similar gene in mice suggested the regulatory roles of this PTP in RAS related signal transduction pathways, cytokine-induced SATA signaling, as well as the activation of voltage-gated K+ channels.
PTPRF	The protein encoded by this gene is a member of the protein tyrosine phosphatase (PTP) family. PTPs are known to be signaling molecules that regulate a variety of cellular processes including cell growth, differentiation, mitotic cycle, and oncogenic transformation. This PTP possesses an extracellular region, a single transmembrane region, and two tandem intracytoplasmic catalytic domains, and thus represents a receptor-type PTP. The extracellular region contains three Ig-like domains, and nine non-Ig like domains similar to that of neural-cell adhesion molecule. This PTP was shown to function in the regulation of epithelial cell-cell contacts at adherents junctions, as well as in the control of beta-catenin signaling. An increased expression level of this protein was found in the insulin-responsive tissue of obese, insulin-resistant individuals, and may contribute to the pathogenesis of insulin resistance. Two alternatively spliced transcript variants of this gene, which encode distinct proteins, have been reported.
PTPRG	The protein encoded by this gene is a member of the protein tyrosine phosphatase (PTP) family. PTPs are known to be signaling molecules that regulate a variety of cellular processes including cell growth, differentiation, mitotic cycle, and oncogenic transformation. This PTP possesses an extracellular region, a single transmembrane region, and two tandem intracytoplasmic catalytic domains, and thus represents a receptor-type PTP. The extracellular region of this PTP contains a carbonic anhydrase-like (CAH) domain, which is also found in the extracellular region of PTPRBETA/ZETA. This gene is located in a chromosomal region that is frequently deleted in renal cell carcinoma and lung carcinoma, thus is thought to be a candidate tumor suppressor gene.
PTPRJ	The protein encoded by this gene is a member of the protein tyrosine phosphatase (PTP) family. PTPs are known to be signaling molecules that regulate a variety of cellular processes, including cell growth, differentiation, mitotic cycle, and oncogenic transformation. This PTP possesses an extracellular region containing five fibronectin type III repeats, a single transmembrane region, and a single intracytoplasmic catalytic domain, and thus represents a receptor-type PTP. This protein is present in all hematopoietic lineages, and was shown to negatively regulate T cell receptor signaling possibly through interfering with the phosphorylation of Phospholipase C Gamma 1 and Linker for Activation of T Cells. This protein can also dephosphorylate the PDGF beta receptor, and may be involved in UV-induced signal transduction. Multiple transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been found for this gene.
PTPRM	The protein encoded by this gene is a member of the protein tyrosine phosphatase (PTP) family. PTPs are known to be signaling molecules that regulate a variety of cellular processes including cell growth, differentiation, mitotic cycle, and oncogenic transformation. This PTP possesses an extracellular region, a single transmembrane region, and two tandem catalytic domains, and thus represents a receptor-type PTP. The extracellular region contains a meprin-A5 antigen-PTP mu (MAM) domain, an Ig-like domain and four fibronectin type III-like repeats. This PTP has been shown to mediate cell-cell aggregation through the interaction with another molecule of this PTP on an adjacent cell. This PTP can interact with scaffolding protein RACK1/GNB2L1, which may be necessary for the downstream signaling in response to cell-cell adhesion. Alternative splicing results in multiple transcripts encoding distinct isoforms.
PTPRR	The protein encoded by this gene is a member of the protein tyrosine phosphatase (PTP) family. PTPs are known to be signaling molecules that regulate a variety of cellular processes including cell growth, differentiation, mitotic cycle, and oncogenic transformation. This PTP possesses an extracellular region, a single transmembrane region, and a single intracellular catalytic domain, and thus represents a receptor-type PTP. Silencing of this gene has been associated with colorectal cancer. Multiple transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been found for this gene. This gene shares a symbol (PTPRQ) with another gene, protein tyrosine phosphatase, receptor type, Q (GeneID 374462), which is also located on chromosome 12.
PTPRS	The protein encoded by this gene is a member of the protein tyrosine phosphatase (PTP) family. PTPs are known to be signaling molecules that regulate a variety of cellular processes including cell growth, differentiation, mitotic cycle, and oncogenic transformation. This PTP contains an extracellular region, a single transmembrane segment and two tandem intracytoplasmic catalytic domains, and thus represents a receptor-type PTP. The extracellular region of this protein is composed of multiple Ig-like and fibronectin type III-like domains. Studies of the similar gene in mice suggested that this PTP may be involved in cell-cell interaction, primary axonogenesis, and axon guidance during embryogenesis. This PTP has been also implicated in the molecular control of adult nerve repair. Four alternatively spliced transcript variants, which encode distinct proteins, have been reported.
PTPRU	The protein encoded by this gene is a member of the protein tyrosine phosphatase (PTP) family. PTPs are known to be signaling molecules that regulate a variety of cellular processes including cell growth, differentiation, mitotic cycle, and oncogenic transformation. This PTP possesses an extracellular region, a single transmembrane region, and two tandem intracellular catalytic domains, and thus represents a receptor-type PTP. The extracellular region contains a meprin-A5 antigen-PTP (MAM) domain, Ig-like and fibronectin type III-like repeats. This PTP was thought to play roles in cell-cell recognition and adhesion. Studies of the similar gene in mice suggested the role of this PTP in early neural development. The expression of this gene was reported to be regulated by phorbol myristate acetate (PMA) or calcium ionophore in Jurkat T lymphoma cells. Alternatively spliced transcript variants have been reported.
PXN	This gene encodes a cytoskeletal protein involved in actin-membrane attachment at sites of cell adhesion to the extracellular matrix (focal adhesion). Alternatively spliced transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been described for this gene. These isoforms exhibit different expression pattern, and have different biochemical, as well as physiological properties (PMID:9054445).
PYGB	The protein encoded by this gene is a glycogen phosphorylase found predominantly in the brain. The encoded protein forms homodimers which can associate into homotetramers, the enzymatically active form of glycogen phosphorylase. The activity of this enzyme is positively regulated by AMP and negatively regulated by ATP, ADP, and glucose-6-phosphate. This enzyme catalyzes the rate-determining step in glycogen degradation.
PYGL	This gene encodes a homodimeric protein that catalyses the cleavage of alpha-1,4-glucosidic bonds to release glucose-1-phosphate from liver glycogen stores. This protein switches from inactive phosphorylase B to active phosphorylase A by phosphorylation of serine residue 15. Activity of this enzyme is further regulated by multiple allosteric effectors and hormonal controls. Humans have three glycogen phosphorylase genes that encode distinct isozymes that are primarily expressed in liver, brain and muscle, respectively. The liver isozyme serves the glycemic demands of the body in general while the brain and muscle isozymes supply just those tissues. In glycogen storage disease type VI, also known as Hers disease, mutations in liver glycogen phosphorylase inhibit the conversion of glycogen to glucose and results in moderate hypoglycemia, mild ketosis, growth retardation and hepatomegaly. Alternative splicing results in multiple transcript variants encoding different isoforms.
PYGM	This gene encodes a muscle enzyme involved in glycogenolysis. Highly similar enzymes encoded by different genes are found in liver and brain. Mutations in this gene are associated with McArdle disease (myophosphorylase deficiency), a glycogen storage disease of muscle. Alternative splicing results in multiple transcript variants.
QARS	Aminoacyl-tRNA synthetases are a class of enzymes that charge tRNAs with their cognate amino acids. The protein encoded by this gene is a multifunctional aminoacyl-tRNA synthetase that catalyzes the aminoacylation of glutamic acid and proline tRNA species. Alternative splicing has been observed for this gene, but the full-length nature and biological validity of the variant have not been determined.
QDPR	This gene encodes the enzyme dihydropteridine reductase, which catalyzes the NADH-mediated reduction of quinonoid dihydrobiopterin.  This enzyme is an essential component of the pterin-dependent aromatic amino acid hydroxylating systems. Mutations in this gene resulting in QDPR deficiency include aberrant splicing, amino acid substitutions, insertions, or premature terminations.  Dihydropteridine reductase deficiency presents as atypical phenylketonuria due to insufficient production of biopterin, a cofactor for phenylalanine hydroxylase.
QPCT	This gene encodes human pituitary glutaminyl cyclase, which is responsible for the presence of pyroglutamyl residues in many neuroendocrine peptides. The amino acid sequence of this enzyme is 86% identical to that of bovine glutaminyl cyclase.
QPCTL	Responsible for the biosynthesis of pyroglutamyl peptides.
QRFPR	Receptor for the orexigenic neuropeptide QRFP. The activity of this receptor is mediated by G proteins that modulate adenylate cyclase activity and intracellular calcium levels.
QTRT1	This gene encodes the catalytic subunit of tRNA-guanine transglycosylase. tRNA-guanine transglycosylase is a heterodimeric enzyme complex that plays a critical role in tRNA modification by synthesizing the 7-deazaguanosine queuosine, which is found in tRNAs that code for asparagine, aspartic acid, histidine and tyrosine. A pseudogene of this gene is located on the long arm of chromosome X.
RAB1A	This gene encodes a member of the Ras superfamily of GTPases. Members of the gene family cycle between inactive GDP-bound and active GTP-bound forms. This small GTPase controls vesicle traffic from the endoplasmic reticulum to the Golgi apparatus. Multiple alternatively spliced transcript variants have been identified for this gene which encode different protein isoforms.
RAB9A	Involved in the transport of proteins between the endosomes and the trans Golgi network. Involved in the recruitment of SGSM2 to melanosomes and is required for the proper trafficking of melanogenic enzymes TYR, TYRP1 and DCT/TYRP2 to melanosomes in melanocytes.
RAC1	The protein encoded by this gene is a GTPase which belongs to the RAS superfamily of small GTP-binding proteins. Members of this superfamily appear to regulate a diverse array of cellular events, including the control of cell growth, cytoskeletal reorganization, and the activation of protein kinases. Two transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been found for this gene.
RAC2	This gene encodes a member of the Ras superfamily of small guanosine triphosphate (GTP)-metabolizing proteins. The encoded protein localizes to the plasma membrane, where it regulates diverse processes, such as secretion, phagocytosis, and cell polarization. Activity of this protein is also involved in the generation of reactive oxygen species. Mutations in this gene are associated with neutrophil immunodeficiency syndrome. There is a pseudogene for this gene on chromosome 6.
RAC3	The protein encoded by this gene is a GTPase which belongs to the RAS superfamily of small GTP-binding proteins. Members of this superfamily appear to regulate a diverse array of cellular events, including the control of cell growth, cytoskeletal reorganization, and the activation of protein kinases. Alternative splicing results in multiple transcript variants.
RACGAP1	This gene encodes a GTPase-activating protein (GAP) that is a compoment of the centralspindlin complex. This protein binds activated forms of Rho GTPases and stimulates GTP hydrolysis, which results in negative regulation of Rho-mediated signals. This protein plays a regulatory role in cytokinesis, cell growth, and differentiation. Alternatively spliced transcript variants have been found for this gene. There is a pseudogene for this gene on chromosome 12.
RAD1	This gene encodes a component of a heterotrimeric cell cycle checkpoint complex, known as the 9-1-1 complex, that is activated to stop cell cycle progression in response to DNA damage or incomplete DNA replication. The 9-1-1 complex is recruited by RAD17 to affected sites where it may attract specialized DNA polymerases and other DNA repair effectors. Alternatively spliced transcript variants of this gene have been described.
RAD51	The protein encoded by this gene is a member of the RAD51 protein family. RAD51 family members are highly similar to bacterial RecA and Saccharomyces cerevisiae Rad51, and are known to be involved in the homologous recombination and repair of DNA. This protein can interact with the ssDNA-binding protein RPA and RAD52, and it is thought to play roles in homologous pairing and strand transfer of DNA. This protein is also found to interact with BRCA1 and BRCA2, which may be important for the cellular response to DNA damage. BRCA2 is shown to regulate both the intracellular localization and DNA-binding ability of this protein. Loss of these controls following BRCA2 inactivation may be a key event leading to genomic instability and tumorigenesis. Multiple transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been found for this gene.
RAD52	The protein encoded by this gene shares similarity with Saccharomyces cerevisiae Rad52, a protein important for DNA double-strand break repair and homologous recombination. This gene product was shown to bind single-stranded DNA ends, and mediate the DNA-DNA interaction necessary for the annealing of complementary DNA strands. It was also found to interact with DNA recombination protein RAD51, which suggested its role in RAD51 related DNA recombination and repair. A pseudogene of this gene is present on chromosome 2. Alternative splicing results in multiple transcript variants. Additional alternatively spliced transcript variants of this gene have been described, but their full-length nature is not known.
RAD54L	The protein encoded by this gene belongs to the DEAD-like helicase superfamily, and shares similarity with Saccharomyces cerevisiae Rad54, a protein known to be involved in the homologous recombination and repair of DNA. This protein has been shown to play a role in homologous recombination related repair of DNA double-strand breaks. The binding of this protein to double-strand DNA induces a DNA topological change, which is thought to facilitate homologous DNA paring, and stimulate DNA recombination. Alternative splicing results in multiple transcript variants encoding the same protein.
RAF1	This gene is the cellular homolog of viral raf gene (v-raf). The encoded protein is a MAP kinase kinase kinase (MAP3K), which functions downstream of the Ras family of membrane associated GTPases to which it binds directly. Once activated, the cellular RAF1 protein can phosphorylate to activate the dual specificity protein kinases MEK1 and MEK2, which in turn phosphorylate to activate the serine/threonine specific protein kinases, ERK1 and ERK2. Activated ERKs are pleiotropic effectors of cell physiology and play an important role in the control of gene expression involved in the cell division cycle, apoptosis, cell differentiation and cell migration. Mutations in this gene are associated with Noonan syndrome 5 and LEOPARD syndrome 2.
RALA	The product of this gene belongs to the small GTPase superfamily, Ras family of proteins. GTP-binding proteins mediate the transmembrane signaling initiated by the occupancy of certain cell surface receptors. This gene encodes a low molecular mass ras-like GTP-binding protein that shares about 50% similarity with other ras proteins.
RALB	This gene encodes a GTP-binding protein that belongs to the small GTPase superfamily and Ras family of proteins. GTP-binding proteins mediate the transmembrane signaling initiated by the occupancy of certain cell surface receptors.
RAMP1	The protein encoded by this gene is a member of the RAMP family of single-transmembrane-domain proteins, called receptor (calcitonin) activity modifying proteins (RAMPs). RAMPs are type I transmembrane proteins with an extracellular N terminus and a cytoplasmic C terminus. RAMPs are required to transport calcitonin-receptor-like receptor (CRLR) to the plasma membrane. CRLR, a receptor with seven transmembrane domains, can function as either a calcitonin-gene-related peptide (CGRP) receptor or an adrenomedullin receptor, depending on which members of the RAMP family are expressed. In the presence of this (RAMP1) protein, CRLR functions as a CGRP receptor. The RAMP1 protein is involved in the terminal glycosylation, maturation, and presentation of the CGRP receptor to the cell surface. Alternative splicing results in multiple transcript variants encoding different isoforms.
RAMP2	The protein encoded by this gene is a member of the RAMP family of single-transmembrane-domain proteins, called receptor (calcitonin) activity modifying proteins (RAMPs). RAMPs are type I transmembrane proteins with an extracellular N terminus and a cytoplasmic C terminus. RAMPs are required to transport calcitonin-receptor-like receptor (CRLR) to the plasma membrane. CRLR, a receptor with seven transmembrane domains, can function as either a calcitonin-gene-related peptide (CGRP) receptor or an adrenomedullin receptor, depending on which members of the RAMP family are expressed. In the presence of this (RAMP2) protein, CRLR functions as an adrenomedullin receptor. The RAMP2 protein is involved in core glycosylation and transportation of adrenomedullin receptor to the cell surface.
RAMP3	The protein encoded by this gene is a member of the RAMP family of single-transmembrane-domain proteins, called receptor (calcitonin) activity modifying proteins (RAMPs). RAMPs are type I transmembrane proteins with an extracellular N terminus and a cytoplasmic C terminus. RAMPs are required to transport calcitonin-receptor-like receptor (CRLR) to the plasma membrane. CRLR, a receptor with seven transmembrane domains, can function as either a calcitonin-gene-related peptide (CGRP) receptor or an adrenomedullin receptor, depending on which members of the RAMP family are expressed. In the presence of this (RAMP3) protein, CRLR functions as an adrenomedullin receptor.
RAP1A	This gene encodes a member of the Ras family of small GTPases. The encoded protein undergoes a change in conformational state and activity, depending on whether it is bound to GTP or GDP. This protein is activated by several types of guanine nucleotide exchange factors (GEFs), and inactivated by two groups of GTPase-activating proteins (GAPs). The activation status of the encoded protein is therefore affected by the balance of intracellular levels of GEFs and GAPs. The encoded protein regulates signaling pathways that affect cell proliferation and adhesion, and may play a role in tumor malignancy. Pseudogenes of this gene have been defined on chromosomes 14 and 17. Alternative splicing results in multiple transcript variants.
RAPGEF3	Guanine nucleotide exchange factor (GEF) for RAP1A and RAP2A small GTPases that is activated by binding cAMP. Through simultaneous binding of PDE3B to RAPGEF3 and PIK3R6 is assembled in a signaling complex in which it activates the PI3K gamma complex and which is involved in angiogenesis. Plays a role in the modulation of the cAMP-induced dynamic control of endothelial barrier function through a pathway that is independent on Rho-mediated signaling. Required for the actin rearrangement at cell-cell junctions, such as stress fibers and junctional actin.
RAPGEF4	Guanine nucleotide exchange factor (GEF) for RAP1A, RAP1B and RAP2A small GTPases that is activated by binding cAMP. Seems not to activate RAB3A. Involved in cAMP-dependent, PKA-independent exocytosis through interaction with RIMS2 (By similarity).
RAPSN	This gene encodes a member of a family of proteins that are receptor associated proteins of the synapse. The encoded protein contains a conserved cAMP-dependent protein kinase phosphorylation site, and plays a critical role in clustering and anchoring nicotinic acetylcholine receptors at synaptic sites by linking the receptors to the underlying postsynaptic cytoskeleton, possibly by direct association with actin or spectrin. Mutations in this gene may play a role in postsynaptic congenital myasthenic syndromes. Alternatively spliced transcript variants encoding multiple isoforms have been observed for this gene.
RARA	This gene represents a nuclear retinoic acid receptor. The encoded protein, retinoic acid receptor alpha, regulates transcription in a ligand-dependent manner. This gene has been implicated in regulation of development, differentiation, apoptosis, granulopoeisis, and transcription of clock genes. Translocations between this locus and several other loci have been associated with acute promyelocytic leukemia. Alternatively spliced transcript variants have been found for this locus.
RARB	This gene encodes retinoic acid receptor beta, a member of the thyroid-steroid hormone receptor superfamily of nuclear transcriptional regulators. This receptor localizes to the cytoplasm and to subnuclear compartments. It binds retinoic acid, the biologically active form of vitamin A which mediates cellular signalling in embryonic morphogenesis, cell growth and differentiation. It is thought that this protein limits growth of many cell types by regulating gene expression. The gene was first identified in a hepatocellular carcinoma where it flanks a hepatitis B virus integration site. Alternate promoter usage and differential splicing result in multiple transcript variants.
RARG	This gene encodes a retinoic acid receptor that belongs to the nuclear hormone receptor family. Retinoic acid receptors (RARs) act as ligand-dependent transcriptional regulators. When bound to ligands, RARs activate transcription by binding as heterodimers to the retinoic acid response elements (RARE) found in the promoter regions of the target genes. In their unbound form, RARs repress transcription of their target genes. RARs are involved in various biological processes, including limb bud development, skeletal growth, and matrix homeostasis. Alternatively spliced transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been found for this gene.
RARS	Aminoacyl-tRNA synthetases catalyze the aminoacylation of tRNA by their cognate amino acid. Because of their central role in linking amino acids with nucleotide triplets contained in tRNAs, aminoacyl-tRNA synthetases are thought to be among the first proteins that appeared in evolution. Arginyl-tRNA synthetase belongs to the class-I aminoacyl-tRNA synthetase family.
RASGRF1	The protein encoded by this gene is a guanine nucleotide exchange factor (GEF) similar to the Saccharomyces cerevisiae CDC25 gene product. Functional analysis has demonstrated that this protein stimulates the dissociation of GDP from RAS protein. The studies of the similar gene in mouse suggested that the Ras-GEF activity of this protein in brain can be activated by Ca2+ influx, muscarinic receptors, and G protein beta-gamma subunit. Mouse studies also indicated that the Ras-GEF signaling pathway mediated by this protein may be important for long-term memory. Alternatively spliced transcript variants encoding distinct isoforms have been reported.
RASGRP1	This gene is a member of a family of genes characterized by the presence of a Ras superfamily guanine nucleotide exchange factor (GEF) domain. It functions as a diacylglycerol (DAG)-regulated nucleotide exchange factor specifically activating Ras through the exchange of bound GDP for GTP. It activates the Erk/MAP kinase cascade and regulates T-cells and B-cells development, homeostasis and differentiation. Alternatively spliced transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been identified. Altered expression of the different isoforms of this protein may be a cause of susceptibility to systemic lupus erythematosus (SLE).
RASGRP3	The protein encoded by this gene is a guanine nucleotide exchange factor that activates the oncogenes HRAS and RAP1A. Defects in this gene have been associated with systemic lupus erythematosus and several cancers.
RB1	The protein encoded by this gene is a negative regulator of the cell cycle and was the first tumor suppressor gene found. The encoded protein also stabilizes constitutive heterochromatin to maintain the overall chromatin structure. The active, hypophosphorylated form of the protein binds transcription factor E2F1. Defects in this gene are a cause of childhood cancer retinoblastoma (RB), bladder cancer, and osteogenic sarcoma.
RBBP9	The protein encoded by this gene is a retinoblastoma binding protein that may play a role in the regulation of cell proliferation and differentiation. Two alternatively spliced transcript variants of this gene with identical predicted protein products have been reported, one of which is a nonsense-mediated decay candidate.
RBP4	 This protein belongs to the lipocalin family and is the specific carrier for retinol (vitamin A alcohol) in the blood. It delivers retinol from the liver stores to the peripheral tissues. In plasma, the RBP-retinol complex interacts with transthyretin which prevents its loss by filtration through the kidney glomeruli. A deficiency of vitamin A blocks secretion of the binding protein posttranslationally and results in defective delivery and supply to the epidermal cells.
RBX1	This locus encodes a RING finger-like domain-containing protein. The encoded protein interacts with cullin proteins and likely plays a role in ubiquitination processes necessary for cell cycle progression. This protein may also affect protein turnover. Related pseudogenes exist on chromosomes 2 and 5.
RCE1	This gene encodes an integral membrane protein which is classified as a member of the metalloproteinase family.  This enzyme is thought to function in the maintenance and processing of CAAX-type prenylated proteins.
RECQL	The protein encoded by this gene is a member of the RecQ DNA helicase family. DNA helicases are enzymes involved in various types of DNA repair, including mismatch repair, nucleotide excision repair and direct repair. The encoded protein is involved in the processing of Holliday junctions, the suppression of sister chromatid exchanges, telomere maintenance, and is required for genotoxic stress resistance. Defects in this gene have been associated with several types of cancer.
RELA	NF-kappa-B is a ubiquitous transcription factor involved in several biological processes. It is held in the cytoplasm in an inactive state by specific inhibitors. Upon degradation of the inhibitor, NF-kappa-B moves to the nucleus and activates transcription of specific genes. NF-kappa-B is composed of NFKB1 or NFKB2 bound to either REL, RELA, or RELB. The most abundant form of NF-kappa-B is NFKB1 complexed with the product of this gene, RELA. Four transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been found for this gene.
REN	Renin catalyzes the first step in the activation pathway of angiotensinogen--a cascade that can result in aldosterone release,vasoconstriction, and increase in blood pressure. Renin, an aspartyl protease, cleaves angiotensinogen to form angiotensin I, which is converted to angiotensin II by angiotensin I converting enzyme, an important regulator of blood pressure and electrolyte balance. Transcript variants that encode different protein isoforms and that arise from alternative splicing and the use of alternative promoters have been described, but their full-length nature has not been determined. Mutations in this gene have been shown to cause familial hyperproreninemia.
RET	This gene encodes a transmembrane receptor and member of the tyrosine protein kinase family of proteins. Binding of ligands such as GDNF (glial cell-line derived neurotrophic factor) and other related proteins to the encoded receptor stimulates receptor dimerization and activation of downstream signaling pathways that play a role in cell differentiation, growth, migration and survival. The encoded receptor is important in development of the nervous system, and the development of organs and tissues derived from the neural crest. This proto-oncogene can undergo oncogenic activation through both cytogenetic rearrangement and activating point mutations. Mutations in this gene are associated with Hirschsprung disease and central hypoventilation syndrome and have been identified in patients with renal agenesis.
RGS12	This gene encodes a member of the 'regulator of G protein signaling' (RGS) gene family. The encoded protein may function as a guanosine triphosphatase (GTPase)-activating protein as well as a transcriptional repressor. This protein may play a role in tumorigenesis. Multiple transcript variants encoding distinct isoforms have been identified for this gene. Other alternative splice variants have been described but their biological nature has not been determined.
RGS16	The protein encoded by this gene belongs to the 'regulator of G protein signaling' family. It inhibits signal transduction by increasing the GTPase activity of G protein alpha subunits. It also may play a role in regulating the kinetics of signaling in the phototransduction cascade.
RGS19	G proteins mediate a number of cellular processes. The protein encoded by this gene belongs to the RGS (regulators of G-protein signaling) family and specifically interacts with G protein, GAI3. This protein is a guanosine triphosphatase-activating protein that functions to down-regulate Galpha i/Galpha q-linked signaling. Alternatively spliced transcript variants encoding the same protein isoform have been found for this gene.
RGS4	Regulator of G protein signaling (RGS) family members are regulatory molecules that act as GTPase activating proteins (GAPs) for G alpha subunits of heterotrimeric G proteins. RGS proteins are able to deactivate G protein subunits of the Gi alpha, Go alpha and Gq alpha subtypes. They drive G proteins into their inactive GDP-bound forms. Regulator of G protein signaling 4 belongs to this family. All RGS proteins share a conserved 120-amino acid sequence termed the RGS domain. Regulator of G protein signaling 4 protein is 37% identical to RGS1 and 97% identical to rat Rgs4. This protein negatively regulate signaling upstream or at the level of the heterotrimeric G protein and is localized in the cytoplasm. Alternatively spliced transcript variants have been found for this gene.
RGS8	This gene is a member of the regulator of G protein signaling (RGS) family and encodes a protein with a single RGS domain. Regulator of G protein signaling (RGS) proteins are regulatory and structural components of G protein-coupled receptor complexes. They accelerate transit through the cycle of GTP binding and hydrolysis to GDP, thereby terminating signal transduction, but paradoxically, also accelerate receptor-stimulated activation.
RHEB	This gene is a member of the small GTPase superfamily and encodes a lipid-anchored, cell membrane protein with five repeats of the RAS-related GTP-binding region. This protein is vital in regulation of growth and cell cycle progression due to its role in the insulin/TOR/S6K signaling pathway. The protein has GTPase activity and shuttles between a GDP-bound form and a GTP-bound form, and farnesylation of the protein is required for this activity. Three pseudogenes have been mapped, two on chromosome 10 and one on chromosome 22.
RHOA	This gene encodes a member of the Rho family of small GTPases, which cycle between inactive GDP-bound and active GTP-bound states and function as molecular switches in signal transduction cascades. Rho proteins promote reorganization of the actin cytoskeleton and regulate cell shape, attachment, and motility. Overexpression of this gene is associated with tumor cell proliferation and metastasis. Multiple alternatively spliced variants have been identified.
RHOB	Mediates apoptosis in neoplastically transformed cells after DNA damage. Not essential for development but affects cell adhesion and growth factor signaling in transformed cells. Plays a negative role in tumorigenesis as deletion causes tumor formation. Involved in intracellular protein trafficking of a number of proteins. Targets PKN1 to endosomes and is involved in trafficking of the EGF receptor from late endosomes to lysosomes. Also required for stability and nuclear trafficking of AKT1/AKT which promotes endothelial cell survival during vascular development. Serves as a microtubule-dependent signal that is required for the myosin contractile ring formation during cell cycle cytokinesis. Required for genotoxic stress-induced cell death in breast cancer cells.
RHOC	This gene encodes a member of the Rho family of small GTPases, which cycle between inactive GDP-bound and active GTP-bound states and function as molecular switches in signal transduction cascades. Rho proteins promote reorganization of the actin cytoskeleton and regulate cell shape, attachment, and motility. The protein encoded by this gene is prenylated at its C-terminus, and localizes to the cytoplasm and plasma membrane. It is thought to be important in cell locomotion. Overexpression of this gene is associated with tumor cell proliferation and metastasis. Multiple alternatively spliced variants, encoding the same protein, have been identified.
RICTOR	RICTOR and MTOR (FRAP1; MIM 601231) are components of a protein complex that integrates nutrient- and growth factor-derived signals to regulate cell growth (Sarbassov et al., 2004
RIOK1	The protein encoded by this gene competes with pICln for inclusion in the protein arginine methyltransferase 5 complex. This complex targets substrates for dimethylation. The encoded protein is essential for the last steps in the maturation of 40S subunits.
RIOK2	Serine/threonine-protein kinase involved in the final steps of cytoplasmic maturation of the 40S ribosomal subunit. Involved in export of the 40S pre-ribosome particles (pre-40S) from the nucleus to the cytoplasm. Its kinase activity is required for the release of NOB1, PNO1 and LTV1 from the late pre-40S and the processing of 18S-E pre-rRNA to the mature 18S rRNA .
RIOK3	This gene was first identified by the similarity of its product to the Aspergillus nidulans SUDD protein. This gene is now recognized as a member of the right open reading frame (RIO) kinase gene family. This gene encodes a serine/threonine kinase that localizes to the cytoplasm and plays a role in the processing of the pre-40 S ribosomal subunit. Alternative splicing results in multiple transcript variants.
RIPK1	This gene encodes a member of the receptor-interacting protein (RIP) family of serine/threonine protein kinases. The encoded protein plays a role in inflammation and cell death in response to tissue damage, pathogen recognition, and as part of developmental regulation. RIPK1/RIPK3 kinase-mediated necrosis is referred to as necroptosis. Genetic disruption of this gene in mice results in death shortly after birth.
RIPK2	This gene encodes a member of the receptor-interacting protein (RIP) family of serine/threonine protein kinases. The encoded protein contains a C-terminal caspase activation and recruitment domain (CARD), and is a component of signaling complexes in both the innate and adaptive immune pathways. It is a potent activator of NF-kappaB and inducer of apoptosis in response to various stimuli.
RIPK3	The product of this gene is a member of the receptor-interacting protein (RIP) family of serine/threonine protein kinases, and contains a C-terminal domain unique from other RIP family members. The encoded protein is predominantly localized to the cytoplasm, and can undergo nucleocytoplasmic shuttling dependent on novel nuclear localization and export signals. It is a component of the tumor necrosis factor (TNF) receptor-I signaling complex, and can induce apoptosis and weakly activate the NF-kappaB transcription factor.
RIPK4	The protein encoded by this gene is a serine/threonine protein kinase that interacts with protein kinase C-delta. The encoded protein can also activate NFkappaB and is required for keratinocyte differentiation. This kinase undergoes autophosphorylation.
RNASE1	This gene encodes a member of the pancreatic-type of secretory ribonucleases, a subset of the ribonuclease A superfamily. The encoded endonuclease cleaves internal phosphodiester RNA bonds on the 3'-side of pyrimidine bases. It prefers poly(C) as a substrate and hydrolyzes 2',3'-cyclic nucleotides, with a pH optimum near 8.0. The encoded protein is monomeric and more commonly acts to degrade ds-RNA over ss-RNA. Alternative splicing occurs at this locus and four transcript variants encoding the same protein have been identified.
RNASE2	The protein encoded by this gene is a non-secretory ribonuclease that belongs to the pancreatic ribonuclease family, a subset of the ribonuclease A superfamily. The protein antimicrobial activity against viruses.
RNASEH1	This gene encodes an endonuclease that specifically degrades the RNA of RNA-DNA hybrids and plays a key role in DNA replication and repair. Alternate in-frame start codon initiation results in the production of alternate isoforms that are directed to the mitochondria or to the nucleus. The production of the mitochondrial isoform is modulated by an upstream open reading frame (uORF). Mutations in this gene have been found in individuals with progressive external ophthalmoplegia with mitochondrial DNA deletions, autosomal recessive 2. Alternative splicing results in additional coding and non-coding transcript variants. Pseudogenes of this gene have been defined on chromosomes 2 and 17.
RNASEL	This gene encodes a component of the interferon-regulated 2-5A system that functions in the antiviral and antiproliferative roles of interferons. Mutations in this gene have been associated with predisposition to prostate cancer and this gene is a candidate for the hereditary prostate cancer 1 (HPC1) allele.
RNPEP	Exopeptidase which selectively removes arginine and/or lysine residues from the N-terminus of several peptide substrates including Arg(0)-Leu-enkephalin, Arg(0)-Met-enkephalin and Arg(-1)-Lys(0)-somatostatin-14. Can hydrolyze leukotriene A4 (LTA-4) into leukotriene B4 (LTB-4) (By similarity).
ROCK1	This gene encodes a protein serine/threonine kinase that is activated when bound to the GTP-bound form of Rho. The small GTPase Rho regulates formation of focal adhesions and stress fibers of fibroblasts, as well as adhesion and aggregation of platelets and lymphocytes by shuttling between the inactive GDP-bound form and the active GTP-bound form. Rho is also essential in cytokinesis and plays a role in transcriptional activation by serum response factor. This protein, a downstream effector of Rho, phosphorylates and activates LIM kinase, which in turn, phosphorylates cofilin, inhibiting its actin-depolymerizing activity. A pseudogene, related to this gene, is also located on chromosome 18.
ROCK2	The protein encoded by this gene is a serine/threonine kinase that regulates cytokinesis, smooth muscle contraction, the formation of actin stress fibers and focal adhesions, and the activation of the c-fos serum response element. This protein, which is an isozyme of ROCK1 is a target for the small GTPase Rho.
ROR2	The protein encoded by this gene is a receptor protein tyrosine kinase and type I transmembrane protein that belongs to the ROR subfamily of cell surface receptors.  The protein may be involved in the early formation of the chondrocytes and may be required for cartilage and growth plate development.  Mutations in this gene can cause brachydactyly type B, a skeletal disorder characterized by hypoplasia/aplasia of distal phalanges and nails. In addition, mutations in this gene can cause the autosomal recessive form of Robinow syndrome, which is characterized by skeletal dysplasia with generalized limb bone shortening, segmental defects of the spine, brachydactyly, and a dysmorphic facial appearance.
RORA	The protein encoded by this gene is a member of the NR1 subfamily of nuclear hormone receptors. It can bind as a monomer or as a homodimer to hormone response elements upstream of several genes to enhance the expression of those genes. The encoded protein has been shown to interact with NM23-2, a nucleoside diphosphate kinase involved in organogenesis and differentiation, as well as with NM23-1, the product of a tumor metastasis suppressor candidate gene. Also, it has been shown to aid in the transcriptional regulation of some genes involved in circadian rhythm. Four transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been described for this gene.
RORB	The protein encoded by this gene is a member of the NR1 subfamily of nuclear hormone receptors. It is a DNA-binding protein that can bind as a monomer or as a homodimer to hormone response elements upstream of several genes to enhance the expression of those genes. The encoded protein has been shown to interact with NM23-2, a nucleoside diphosphate kinase involved in organogenesis and differentiation, and to help regulate the expression of some genes involved in circadian rhythm.
RORC	The protein encoded by this gene is a DNA-binding transcription factor and is a member of the NR1 subfamily of nuclear hormone receptors. The specific functions of this protein are not known; however, studies of a similar gene in mice have shown that this gene may be essential for lymphoid organogenesis and may play an important regulatory role in thymopoiesis. In addition, studies in mice suggest that the protein encoded by this gene may inhibit the expression of Fas ligand and IL2. Two transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been found for this gene.
ROS1	This proto-oncogene, highly-expressed in a variety of tumor cell lines, belongs to the sevenless subfamily of tyrosine kinase insulin receptor genes. The protein encoded by this gene is a type I integral membrane protein with tyrosine kinase activity. The protein may function as a growth or differentiation factor receptor.
RPA1	This gene encodes the largest subunit of the heterotrimeric Replication Protein A (RPA) complex, which binds to single-stranded DNA (ssDNA), forming a nucleoprotein complex that plays an important role in DNA metabolism, being involved in DNA replication, repair, recombination, telomere maintenance, and co-ordinating the cellular response to DNA damage through activation of the ataxia telangiectasia and Rad3-related protein (ATR) kinase. The nucleoprotein complex protects the single-stranded DNA from nucleases, prevents formation of secondary structures that would interfere with repair, and co-ordinates the recruitment and departure of different genome maintenance factors. This subunit contains four oligonucleotide/oligosaccharide-binding (OB) domains, though the majority of ssDNA binding occurs in two of these domains. The heterotrimeric complex has two different modes of ssDNA binding, a low-affinity and high-affinity mode, determined by which ssDNA binding domains are utilized. The different binding modes differ in the length of DNA bound and in the proteins with which it interacts, thereby playing a role in regulating different genomic maintenance pathways.
RPE65	The protein encoded by this gene is a component of the vitamin A visual cycle of the retina which supplies the 11-cis retinal chromophore of the photoreceptors opsin visual pigments. It is a member of the carotenoid cleavage oxygenase superfamily. All members of this superfamily are non-heme iron oxygenases with a seven-bladed propeller fold and oxidatively cleave carotenoid carbon:carbon double bonds. However, the protein encoded by this gene has acquired a divergent function that involves the concerted O-alkyl ester cleavage of its all-trans retinyl ester substrate and all-trans to 11-cis double bond isomerization of the retinyl moiety. As such, it performs the essential enzymatic isomerization step in the synthesis of 11-cis retinal. Mutations in this gene are associated with early-onset severe blinding disorders such as Leber congenital.
RPS27	Ribosomes, the organelles that catalyze protein synthesis, consist of a small 40S subunit and a large 60S subunit. Together these subunits are composed of four RNA species and approximately 80 structurally distinct proteins. This gene encodes a member of the S27e family of ribosomal proteins and component of the 40S subunit. The encoded protein contains a C4-type zinc finger domain that can bind to zinc and may bind to nucleic acid. Mutations in this gene have been identified in numerous melanoma patients and in at least one patient with Diamond-Blackfan anemia (DBA). Elevated expression of this gene has been observed in various human cancers. As is typical for genes encoding ribosomal proteins, there are multiple processed pseudogenes of this gene dispersed through the genome.
RPS6	Ribosomes, the organelles that catalyze protein synthesis, consist of a small 40S subunit and a large 60S subunit. Together these subunits are composed of 4 RNA species and approximately 80 structurally distinct proteins. This gene encodes a cytoplasmic ribosomal protein that is a component of the 40S subunit. The protein belongs to the S6E family of ribosomal proteins. It is the major substrate of protein kinases in the ribosome, with subsets of five C-terminal serine residues phosphorylated by different protein kinases. Phosphorylation is induced by a wide range of stimuli, including growth factors, tumor-promoting agents, and mitogens. Dephosphorylation occurs at growth arrest. The protein may contribute to the control of cell growth and proliferation through the selective translation of particular classes of mRNA. As is typical for genes encoding ribosomal proteins, there are multiple processed pseudogenes of this gene dispersed through the genome.
RPS6KA1	This gene encodes a member of the RSK (ribosomal S6 kinase) family of serine/threonine kinases. This kinase contains 2 nonidentical kinase catalytic domains and phosphorylates various substrates, including members of the mitogen-activated kinase (MAPK) signalling pathway. The activity of this protein has been implicated in controlling cell growth and differentiation. Alternate transcriptional splice variants, encoding different isoforms, have been characterized.
RPS6KA2	This gene encodes a member of the RSK (ribosomal S6 kinase) family of serine/threonine kinases. This kinase contains two non-identical kinase catalytic domains and phosphorylates various substrates, including members of the mitogen-activated kinase (MAPK) signalling pathway. The activity of this protein has been implicated in controlling cell growth and differentiation. Alternative splice variants, encoding different isoforms, have been characterized.
RPS6KA3	This gene encodes a member of the RSK (ribosomal S6 kinase) family of serine/threonine kinases. This kinase contains 2 non-identical kinase catalytic domains and phosphorylates various substrates, including members of the mitogen-activated kinase (MAPK) signalling pathway. The activity of this protein has been implicated in controlling cell growth and differentiation. Mutations in this gene have been associated with Coffin-Lowry syndrome (CLS).
RPS6KA4	This gene encodes a member of the RSK (ribosomal S6 kinase) family of serine/threonine kinases. This kinase contains 2 non-identical kinase catalytic domains and phosphorylates various substrates, including CREB1 and ATF1. The encoded protein can also phosphorylate histone H3 to regulate certain inflammatory genes. Several transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been found for this gene.
RPS6KA5	Serine/threonine-protein kinase that is required for the mitogen or stress-induced phosphorylation of the transcription factors CREB1 and ATF1 and for the regulation of the transcription factors RELA, STAT3 and ETV1/ER81, and that contributes to gene activation by histone phosphorylation and functions in the regulation of inflammatory genes .
RPS6KA6	This gene encodes a member of ribosomal S6 kinase family, serine-threonine protein kinases which are regulated by growth factors. The encoded protein may be distinct from other members of this family, however, as studies suggest it is not growth factor dependent and may not participate in the same signaling pathways.
RPS6KB1	This gene encodes a member of the ribosomal S6 kinase family of serine/threonine kinases. The encoded protein responds to mTOR (mammalian target of rapamycin) signaling to promote protein synthesis, cell growth, and cell proliferation. Activity of this gene has been associated with human cancer. Alternatively spliced transcript variants have been observed. The use of alternative translation start sites results in isoforms with longer or shorter N-termini which may differ in their subcellular localizations. There are two pseudogenes for this gene on chromosome 17.
RPS6KB2	This gene encodes a member of the RSK (ribosomal S6 kinase) family of serine/threonine kinases. This kinase contains a kinase catalytic domain and phosphorylates the S6 ribosomal protein and eukaryotic translation initiation factor 4B (eIF4B). Phosphorylation of S6 leads to an increase in protein synthesis and cell proliferation.
RPS6KC1	Sphingosine kinase catalyzes the formation of sphingosine 1 phosphate, a lipid cellular messenger. The protein encoded by this gene can bind to sphingosine kinase and to phosphatidylinositol 3-phosphate, suggesting a role in sphingosine 1 phophate signaling. The encoded protein can also bind to peroxiredoxin-3 and may help transport it to mitochondria.
RPSA	Laminins, a family of extracellular matrix glycoproteins, are the major noncollagenous constituent of basement membranes. They have been implicated in a wide variety of biological processes including cell adhesion, differentiation, migration, signaling, neurite outgrowth and metastasis. Many of the effects of laminin are mediated through interactions with cell surface receptors. These receptors include members of the integrin family, as well as non-integrin laminin-binding proteins. This gene encodes a high-affinity, non-integrin family, laminin receptor 1. This receptor has been variously called 67 kD laminin receptor, 37 kD laminin receptor precursor (37LRP) and p40 ribosome-associated protein. The amino acid sequence of laminin receptor 1 is highly conserved through evolution, suggesting a key biological function. It has been observed that the level of the laminin receptor transcript is higher in colon carcinoma tissue and lung cancer cell line than their normal counterparts. Also, there is a correlation between the upregulation of this polypeptide in cancer cells and their invasive and metastatic phenotype. Multiple copies of this gene exist, however, most of them are pseudogenes thought to have arisen from retropositional events. Two alternatively spliced transcript variants encoding the same protein have been found for this gene.
RPTOR	This gene encodes a component of a signaling pathway that regulates cell growth in response to nutrient and insulin levels. The encoded protein forms a stoichiometric complex with the mTOR kinase, and also associates with eukaryotic initiation factor 4E-binding protein-1 and ribosomal protein S6 kinase. The protein positively regulates the downstream effector ribosomal protein S6 kinase, and negatively regulates the mTOR kinase. Multiple transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been found for this gene.
RRM1	This gene encodes the large and catalytic subunit of ribonucleotide reductase, an enzyme essential for the conversion of ribonucleotides into deoxyribonucleotides. A pool of available deoxyribonucleotides is important for DNA replication during S phase of the cell cycle as well as multiple DNA repair processes. Alternative splicing results in multiple transcript variants.
RRM2	This gene encodes one of two non-identical subunits for ribonucleotide reductase. This reductase catalyzes the formation of deoxyribonucleotides from ribonucleotides. Synthesis of the encoded protein (M2) is regulated in a cell-cycle dependent fashion. Transcription from this gene can initiate from alternative promoters, which results in two isoforms that differ in the lengths of their N-termini. Related pseudogenes have been identified on chromosomes 1 and X.
RSL1D1	Regulates cellular senescence through inhibition of PTEN translation. Acts as a pro-apoptotic regulator in response to DNA damage.
RTN4	This gene belongs to the family of reticulon encoding genes. Reticulons are associated with the endoplasmic reticulum, and are involved in neuroendocrine secretion or in membrane trafficking in neuroendocrine cells. The product of this gene is a potent neurite outgrowth inhibitor which may also help block the regeneration of the central nervous system in higher vertebrates. Alternatively spliced transcript variants derived both from differential splicing and differential promoter usage and encoding different isoforms have been identified.
RUNX1	Core binding factor (CBF) is a heterodimeric transcription factor that binds to the core element of many enhancers and promoters. The protein encoded by this gene represents the alpha subunit of CBF and is thought to be involved in the development of normal hematopoiesis. Chromosomal translocations involving this gene are well-documented and have been associated with several types of leukemia. Three transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been found for this gene.
RUVBL1	This gene encodes a protein that has both DNA-dependent ATPase and DNA helicase activities and belongs to the ATPases associated with diverse cellular activities (AAA+) protein family. The encoded protein associates with several multisubunit transcriptional complexes and with protein complexes involved in both ATP-dependent remodeling and histone modification. Alternate splicing results in multiple transcript variants.
RUVBL2	This gene encodes the second human homologue of the bacterial RuvB gene. Bacterial RuvB protein is a DNA helicase essential for homologous recombination and DNA double-strand break repair. Functional analysis showed that this gene product has both ATPase and DNA helicase activities. This gene is physically linked to the CGB/LHB gene cluster on chromosome 19q13.3, and is very close (55 nt) to the LHB gene, in the opposite orientation.
RXFP1	This gene encodes a member of the leucine-rich repeat-containing subgroup of the G protein-coupled 7-transmembrane receptor superfamily. The encoded protein plays a critical role in sperm motility, pregnancy and parturition as a receptor for the protein hormone relaxin. Decreased expression of this gene may play a role in endometriosis. Alternatively spliced transcript variants encoding multiple isoforms have been observed for this gene.
RXFP2	This gene encodes a member of the GPCR (G protein-coupled, 7-transmembrane receptor) family. Mutations in this gene are associated with cryptorchidism. Alternatively spliced transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been found for this gene.
RXFP3	Receptor for RNL3/relaxin-3. Binding of the ligand inhibit cAMP accumulation.
RXFP4	GPR100 is a member of the rhodopsin family of G protein-coupled receptors (GPRs) (Fredriksson et al., 2003
RXRA	Retinoid X receptors (RXRs) and retinoic acid receptors (RARs) are nuclear receptors that mediate the biological effects of retinoids by their involvement in retinoic acid-mediated gene activation. These receptors function as transcription factors by binding as homodimers or heterodimers to specific sequences in the promoters of target genes. The protein encoded by this gene is a member of the steroid and thyroid hormone receptor superfamily of transcriptional regulators. Alternative splicing of this gene results in multiple transcript variants.
RXRB	This gene encodes a member of the retinoid X receptor (RXR) family of nuclear receptors which are involved in mediating the effects of retinoic acid (RA). The encoded protein forms homodimers with the retinoic acid, thyroid hormone, and vitamin D receptors, increasing both DNA binding and transcriptional function on their respective response elements. This gene lies within the major histocompatibility complex (MHC) class II region on chromosome 6. Alternatively spliced transcript variants encoding multiple isoforms have been observed for this gene.
RXRG	This gene encodes a member of the retinoid X receptor (RXR) family of nuclear receptors which are involved in mediating the antiproliferative effects of retinoic acid (RA). This receptor forms dimers with the retinoic acid, thyroid hormone, and vitamin D receptors, increasing both DNA binding and transcriptional function on their respective response elements. This gene is expressed at significantly lower levels in non-small cell lung cancer cells. Alternatively spliced transcript variants have been described.
RYR1	This gene encodes a ryanodine receptor found in skeletal muscle. The encoded protein functions as a calcium release channel in the sarcoplasmic reticulum but also serves to connect the sarcoplasmic reticulum and transverse tubule. Mutations in this gene are associated with malignant hyperthermia susceptibility, central core disease, and minicore myopathy with external ophthalmoplegia. Alternatively spliced transcripts encoding different isoforms have been described.
RYR2	This gene encodes a ryanodine receptor found in cardiac muscle sarcoplasmic reticulum. The encoded protein is one of the components of a calcium channel, composed of a tetramer of the ryanodine receptor proteins and a tetramer of FK506 binding protein 1B proteins, that supplies calcium to cardiac muscle. Mutations in this gene are associated with stress-induced polymorphic ventricular tachycardia and arrhythmogenic right ventricular dysplasia.
RYR3	The protein encoded by this gene is a ryanodine receptor, which functions to release calcium from intracellular storage for use in many cellular processes. For example, the encoded protein is involved in skeletal muscle contraction by releasing calcium from the sarcoplasmic reticulum followed by depolarization of T-tubules. Two transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been found for this gene.
S100A4	The protein encoded by this gene is a member of the S100 family of proteins containing 2 EF-hand calcium-binding motifs. S100 proteins are localized in the cytoplasm and/or nucleus of a wide range of cells, and involved in the regulation of a number of cellular processes such as cell cycle progression and differentiation. S100 genes include at least 13 members which are located as a cluster on chromosome 1q21. This protein may function in motility, invasion, and tubulin polymerization. Chromosomal rearrangements and altered expression of this gene have been implicated in tumor metastasis. Multiple alternatively spliced variants, encoding the same protein, have been identified.
S100B	The protein encoded by this gene is a member of the S100 family of proteins containing 2 EF-hand calcium-binding motifs. S100 proteins are localized in the cytoplasm and/or nucleus of a wide range of cells, and involved in the regulation of a number of cellular processes such as cell cycle progression and differentiation. S100 genes include at least 13 members which are located as a cluster on chromosome 1q21; however, this gene is located at 21q22.3. This protein may function in Neurite extension, proliferation of melanoma cells, stimulation of Ca2+ fluxes, inhibition of PKC-mediated phosphorylation, astrocytosis and axonal proliferation, and inhibition of microtubule assembly. Chromosomal rearrangements and altered expression of this gene have been implicated in several neurological, neoplastic, and other types of diseases, including Alzheimer's disease, Down's syndrome, epilepsy, amyotrophic lateral sclerosis, melanoma, and type I diabetes.
S1PR1	The protein encoded by this gene is structurally similar to G protein-coupled receptors and is highly expressed in endothelial cells. It binds the ligand sphingosine-1-phosphate with high affinity and high specificity, and suggested to be involved in the processes that regulate the differentiation of endothelial cells. Activation of this receptor induces cell-cell adhesion. Alternative splicing results in multiple transcript variants.
S1PR2	This gene encodes a member of the G protein-coupled receptors, as well as the EDG family of proteins. The encoded protein is a receptor for sphingosine 1-phosphate, which participates in cell proliferation, survival, and transcriptional activation. Defects in this gene have been associated with congenital profound deafness.
S1PR3	This gene encodes a member of the EDG family of receptors, which are G protein-coupled receptors. This protein has been identified as a functional receptor for sphingosine 1-phosphate and likely contributes to the regulation of angiogenesis and vascular endothelial cell function.
S1PR4	This gene is a member of the endothelial differentiation, G-protein-coupled (EDG)) receptor gene family. EDG receptors bind lysophospholipids or lysosphingolipids as ligands, and are involved in cell signalling in many different cell types. This EDG receptor gene is intronless and is specifically expressed in the lymphoid tissue.
S1PR5	The lysosphingolipid sphingosine 1-phosphate (S1P) regulates cell proliferation, apoptosis, motility, and neurite retraction. Its actions may be both intracellular as a second messenger and extracellular as a receptor ligand. S1P and the structurally related lysolipid mediator lysophosphatidic acid (LPA) signal cells through a set of G protein-coupled receptors known as EDG receptors. Some EDG receptors (e.g., EDG1; MIM 601974) are S1P receptors; others (e.g., EDG2; MIM 602282) are LPA receptors.
SAE1	Posttranslational modification of proteins by the addition of the small protein SUMO (see SUMO1; MIM 601912), or sumoylation, regulates protein structure and intracellular localization. SAE1 and UBA2 (MIM 613295) form a heterodimer that functions as a SUMO-activating enzyme for the sumoylation of proteins (Okuma et al., 1999
SAT1	The protein encoded by this gene belongs to the acetyltransferase family, and is a rate-limiting enzyme in the catabolic pathway of polyamine metabolism. It catalyzes the acetylation of spermidine and spermine, and is involved in the regulation of the intracellular concentration of polyamines and their transport out of cells. Defects in this gene are associated with keratosis follicularis spinulosa decalvans (KFSD). Alternatively spliced transcripts have been found for this gene.
SAT2	Enzyme which catalyzes the acetylation of polyamines. Substrate specificity: norspermidine > spermidine = spermine >> N(1)acetylspermine = putrescine.
SC5D	This gene encodes an enzyme of cholesterol biosynthesis. The encoded protein catalyzes the conversion of lathosterol into 7-dehydrocholesterol. Mutations in this gene have been associated with lathosterolosis. Alternatively spliced transcript variants encoding the same protein have been described.
SCARB1	The protein encoded by this gene is a plasma membrane receptor for high density lipoprotein cholesterol (HDL). The encoded protein mediates cholesterol transfer to and from HDL. In addition, this protein is a receptor for hepatitis C virus glycoprotein E2. Several transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been found for this gene.
SCD	This gene encodes an enzyme involved in fatty acid biosynthesis, primarily the synthesis of oleic acid. The protein belongs to the fatty acid desaturase family and is an integral membrane protein located in the endoplasmic reticulum. Transcripts of approximately 3.9 and 5.2 kb, differing only by alternative polyadenlyation signals, have been detected. A gene encoding a similar enzyme is located on chromosome 4 and a pseudogene of this gene is located on chromosome 17.
SCD5	Stearoyl-CoA desaturase (SCD; EC 1.14.99.5) is an integral membrane protein of the endoplasmic reticulum that catalyzes the formation of monounsaturated fatty acids from saturated fatty acids. SCD may be a key regulator of energy metabolism with a role in obesity and dislipidemia. Four SCD isoforms, Scd1 through Scd4, have been identified in mouse. In contrast, only 2 SCD isoforms, SCD1 (MIM 604031) and SCD5, have been identified in human. SCD1 shares about 85% amino acid identity with all 4 mouse SCD isoforms, as well as with rat Scd1 and Scd2. In contrast, SCD5 shares limited homology with the rodent SCDs and appears to be unique to primates (Wang et al., 2005
SCN10A	The protein encoded by this gene is a tetrodotoxin-resistant voltage-gated sodium channel alpha subunit. The properties of the channel formed by the encoded transmembrane protein can be altered by interaction with different beta subunits. This protein may be involved in the onset of pain associated with peripheral neuropathy. Alternative splicing results in multiple transcript variants.
SCN11A	Voltage-gated sodium channels are transmembrane glycoprotein complexes composed of a large alpha subunit with 24 transmembrane domains and one or more regulatory beta subunits. They are responsible for the generation and propagation of action potentials in neurons and muscle. This gene encodes one member of the sodium channel alpha subunit gene family, and is highly expressed in nociceptive neurons of dorsal root ganglia and trigeminal ganglia. It mediates brain-derived neurotrophic factor-evoked membrane depolarization and is a major effector of peripheral inflammatory pain hypersensitivity. Mutations in this gene have been associated with hereditary sensory and autonomic neuropathy type VII and familial episodic pain syndrome-3. Alternative splicing results in multiple transcript variants.
SCN1A	Voltage-dependent sodium channels are heteromeric complexes that regulate sodium exchange between intracellular and extracellular spaces and are essential for the generation and propagation of action potentials in muscle cells and neurons. Each sodium channel is composed of a large pore-forming, glycosylated alpha subunit and two smaller beta subunits. This gene encodes a sodium channel alpha subunit, which has four homologous domains, each of which contains six transmembrane regions. Allelic variants of this gene are associated with generalized epilepsy with febrile seizures and epileptic encephalopathy. Alternative splicing results in multiple transcript variants. The RefSeq Project has decided to create four representative RefSeq records. Three of the transcript variants are supported by experimental evidence and the fourth contains alternate 5' untranslated exons, the exact combination of which have not been experimentally confirmed for the full-length transcript.
SCN2A	Voltage-gated sodium channels are transmembrane glycoprotein complexes composed of a large alpha subunit with four repeat domains, each of which is composed of six membrane-spanning segments, and one or more regulatory beta subunits. Voltage-gated sodium channels function in the generation and propagation of action potentials in neurons and muscle. This gene encodes one member of the sodium channel alpha subunit gene family. Allelic variants of this gene are associated with seizure disorders and autism spectrum disorder. Alternative splicing results in multiple transcript variants.
SCN3A	Voltage-gated sodium channels are transmembrane glycoprotein complexes composed of a large alpha subunit with 24 transmembrane domains and one or more regulatory beta subunits. They are responsible for the generation and propagation of action potentials in neurons and muscle. This gene encodes one member of the sodium channel alpha subunit gene family, and is found in a cluster of five alpha subunit genes on chromosome 2. Multiple transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been found for this gene.
SCN4A	Voltage-gated sodium channels are transmembrane glycoprotein complexes composed of a large alpha subunit with 24 transmembrane domains and one or more regulatory beta subunits. They are responsible for the generation and propagation of action potentials in neurons and muscle. This gene encodes one member of the sodium channel alpha subunit gene family. It is expressed in skeletal muscle, and mutations in this gene have been linked to several myotonia and periodic paralysis disorders.
SCN5A	The protein encoded by this gene is an integral membrane protein and tetrodotoxin-resistant voltage-gated sodium channel subunit. This protein is found primarily in cardiac muscle and is responsible for the initial upstroke of the action potential in an electrocardiogram. Defects in this gene are a cause of long QT syndrome type 3 (LQT3), an autosomal dominant cardiac disease. Alternative splicing results in several transcript variants encoding different isoforms.
SCN7A	This gene encodes one of the many voltage-gated sodium channel proteins. For proper functioning of neurons and muscles during action potentials, voltage-gated sodium channels direct sodium ion diffusion for membrane depolarization. This sodium channel protein has some atypical characteristics; the similarity between the human and mouse proteins is lower compared to other orthologous sodium channel pairs. Also, the S4 segments, which sense voltage changes, have fewer positive charged residues that in other sodium channels; domain 4 has fewer arginine and lysine residues compared to other sodium channel proteins. Several alternatively spliced transcript variants exist, but the full-length natures of all of them remain unknown.
SCN8A	This gene encodes a member of the sodium channel alpha subunit gene family. The encoded protein forms the ion pore region of the voltage-gated sodium channel. This protein is essential for the rapid membrane depolarization that occurs during the formation of the action potential in excitable neurons. Mutations in this gene are associated with cognitive disability, pancerebellar atrophy and ataxia. Alternate splicing results in multiple transcript variants.
SCN9A	This gene encodes a voltage-gated sodium channel which plays a significant role in nociception signaling. Mutations in this gene have been associated with primary erythermalgia, channelopathy-associated insensitivity to pain, and paroxysmal extreme pain disorder.
SCNN1A	Nonvoltage-gated, amiloride-sensitive, sodium channels control fluid and electrolyte transport across epithelia in many organs. These channels are heteromeric complexes consisting of 3 subunits: alpha, beta, and gamma. This gene encodes the alpha subunit, and mutations in this gene have been associated with pseudohypoaldosteronism type 1 (PHA1), a rare salt wasting disease resulting from target organ unresponsiveness to mineralocorticoids. Alternatively spliced transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been described for this gene.
SCP2	This gene encodes two proteins: sterol carrier protein X (SCPx) and sterol carrier protein 2 (SCP2), as a result of transcription initiation from 2 independently regulated promoters. The transcript initiated from the proximal promoter encodes the longer SCPx protein, and the transcript initiated from the distal promoter encodes the shorter SCP2 protein, with the 2 proteins sharing a common C-terminus. Evidence suggests that the SCPx protein is a peroxisome-associated thiolase that is involved in the oxidation of branched chain fatty acids, while the SCP2 protein is thought to be an intracellular lipid transfer protein. This gene is highly expressed in organs involved in lipid metabolism, and may play a role in Zellweger syndrome, in which cells are deficient in peroxisomes and have impaired bile acid synthesis. Alternative splicing of this gene produces multiple transcript variants, some encoding different isoforms.
SCPEP1	May be involved in vascular wall and kidney homeostasis.
SCTR	The protein encoded by this gene is a G protein-coupled receptor and belongs to the glucagon-VIP-secretin receptor family. It binds secretin which is the most potent regulator of pancreatic bicarbonate, electrolyte and volume secretion. Secretin and its receptor are suggested to be involved in pancreatic cancer and autism.
SDC1	The protein encoded by this gene is a transmembrane (type I) heparan sulfate proteoglycan and is a member of the syndecan proteoglycan family. The syndecans mediate cell binding, cell signaling, and cytoskeletal organization and syndecan receptors are required for internalization of the HIV-1 tat protein. The syndecan-1 protein functions as an integral membrane protein and participates in cell proliferation, cell migration and cell-matrix interactions via its receptor for extracellular matrix proteins. Altered syndecan-1 expression has been detected in several different tumor types. While several transcript variants may exist for this gene, the full-length natures of only two have been described to date. These two represent the major variants of this gene and encode the same protein.
SDHA	This gene encodes a major catalytic subunit of succinate-ubiquinone oxidoreductase, a complex of the mitochondrial respiratory chain. The complex is composed of four nuclear-encoded subunits and is localized in the mitochondrial inner membrane. Mutations in this gene have been associated with a form of mitochondrial respiratory chain deficiency known as Leigh Syndrome. A pseudogene has been identified on chromosome 3q29. Alternatively spliced transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been found for this gene.
SELE	The protein encoded by this gene is found in cytokine-stimulated endothelial cells and is thought to be responsible for the accumulation of blood leukocytes at sites of inflammation by mediating the adhesion of cells to the vascular lining. It exhibits structural features such as the presence of lectin- and EGF-like domains followed by short consensus repeat (SCR) domains that contain 6 conserved cysteine residues. These proteins are part of the selectin family of cell adhesion molecules. Adhesion molecules participate in the interaction between leukocytes and the endothelium and appear to be involved in the pathogenesis of atherosclerosis.
SELL	This gene encodes a cell surface adhesion molecule that belongs to a family of adhesion/homing receptors. The encoded protein contains a C-type lectin-like domain, a calcium-binding epidermal growth factor-like domain, and two short complement-like repeats. The gene product is required for binding and subsequent rolling of leucocytes on endothelial cells, facilitating their migration into secondary lymphoid organs and inflammation sites. Single-nucleotide polymorphisms in this gene have been associated with various diseases including immunoglobulin A nephropathy. Alternatively spliced transcript variants have been found for this gene.
SELP	This gene encodes a 140 kDa protein that is stored in the alpha-granules of platelets and Weibel-Palade bodies of endothelial cells. This protein redistributes to the plasma membrane during platelet activation and degranulation and mediates the interaction of activated endothelial cells or platelets with leukocytes. The membrane protein is a calcium-dependent receptor that binds to sialylated forms of Lewis blood group carbohydrate antigens on neutrophils and monocytes. Alternative splice variants may occur but are not well documented.
SELPLG	This gene encodes a glycoprotein that functions as a high affinity counter-receptor for the cell adhesion molecules P-, E- and L- selectin expressed on myeloid cells and stimulated T lymphocytes. As such, this protein plays a critical role in leukocyte trafficking during inflammation by tethering of leukocytes to activated platelets or endothelia expressing selectins. This protein requires two post-translational modifications, tyrosine sulfation and the addition of the sialyl Lewis x tetrasaccharide (sLex) to its O-linked glycans, for its high-affinity binding activity. Aberrant expression of this gene and polymorphisms in this gene are associated with defects in the innate and adaptive immune response. Alternate splicing results in multiple transcript variants.
SENP1	This gene encodes a cysteine protease that specifically targets members of the small ubiquitin-like modifier (SUMO) protein family. This protease regulates SUMO pathways by deconjugating sumoylated proteins. This protease also functions to process the precursor SUMO proteins into their mature form. Alternate splicing results in multiple transcript variants.
SENP2	SUMO1 (UBL1; MIM 601912) is a small ubiquitin-like protein that can be covalently conjugated to other proteins. SENP2 is one of a group of enzymes that process newly synthesized SUMO1 into the conjugatable form and catalyze the deconjugation of SUMO1-containing species.
SENP6	Ubiquitin-like molecules (UBLs), such as SUMO1 (UBL1; MIM 601912), are structurally related to ubiquitin (MIM 191339) and can be ligated to target proteins in a similar manner as ubiquitin. However, covalent attachment of UBLs does not result in degradation of the modified proteins. SUMO1 modification is implicated in the targeting of RANGAP1 (MIM 602362) to the nuclear pore complex, as well as in stabilization of I-kappa-B-alpha (NFKBIA; MIM 164008) from degradation by the 26S proteasome. Like ubiquitin, UBLs are synthesized as precursor proteins, with 1 or more amino acids following the C-terminal glycine-glycine residues of the mature UBL protein. Thus, the tail sequences of the UBL precursors need to be removed by UBL-specific proteases, such as SENP6, prior to their conjugation to target proteins (Kim et al., 2000
SENP8	This gene encodes a cysteine protease that is a member of the sentrin-specific protease family. The encoded protein is involved in processing and deconjugation of the ubiquitin-like protein termed, neural precursor cell expressed developmentally downregulated 8. Alternate splicing results in multiple transcript variants.
SERPINA3	The protein encoded by this gene is a plasma protease inhibitor and member of the serine protease inhibitor class. Polymorphisms in this protein appear to be tissue specific and influence protease targeting. Variations in this protein's sequence have been implicated in Alzheimer's disease, and deficiency of this protein has been associated with liver disease. Mutations have been identified in patients with Parkinson disease and chronic obstructive pulmonary disease.
SERPINA6	This gene encodes an alpha-globulin protein with corticosteroid-binding properties. This is the major transport protein for glucorticoids and progestins in the blood of most vertebrates. The gene localizes to a chromosomal region containing several closely related serine protease inhibitors which may have evolved by duplication events.
SERPINA7	There are three proteins including thyroxine-binding globulin (TBG), transthyretin and albumin responsible for carrying the thyroid hormones thyroxine (T4) and 3,5,3'-triiodothyronine (T3) in the bloodstream. This gene encodes the major thyroid hormone transport protein, TBG, in serum. It belongs to the serpin family in genomics, but the protein has no inhibitory function like many other members of the serpin family. Mutations in this gene result in TGB deficiency, which has been classified as partial deficiency, complete deficiency, and excess, based on the level of serum TBG. Alternatively spliced transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been found, but the full-length nature of these variants has not been determined.
SERPINC1	The protein encoded by this gene is a plasma protease inhibitor and a member of the serpin superfamily. This protein inhibits thrombin as well as other activated serine proteases of the coagulation system, and it regulates the blood coagulation cascade. The protein includes two functional domains: the heparin binding-domain at the N-terminus of the mature protein, and the reactive site domain at the C-terminus. The inhibitory activity is enhanced by the presence of heparin. More than 120 mutations have been identified for this gene, many of which are known to cause antithrombin-III deficiency.
SERPINE1	This gene encodes a member of the serine proteinase inhibitor (serpin) superfamily. This member is the principal inhibitor of tissue plasminogen activator (tPA) and urokinase (uPA), and hence is an inhibitor of fibrinolysis. Defects in this gene are the cause of plasminogen activator inhibitor-1 deficiency (PAI-1 deficiency), and high concentrations of the gene product are associated with thrombophilia. Alternatively spliced transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been found for this gene.
SERPINH1	This gene encodes a member of the serpin superfamily of serine proteinase inhibitors. The encoded protein is localized to the endoplasmic reticulum and plays a role in collagen biosynthesis as a collagen-specific molecular chaperone. Autoantibodies to the encoded protein have been found in patients with rheumatoid arthritis. Expression of this gene may be a marker for cancer, and nucleotide polymorphisms in this gene may be associated with preterm birth caused by preterm premature rupture of membranes. Alternatively spliced transcript variants have been observed for this gene, and a pseudogene of this gene is located on the short arm of chromosome 9.
SETD2	Huntington's disease (HD), a neurodegenerative disorder characterized by loss of striatal neurons, is caused by an expansion of a polyglutamine tract in the HD protein huntingtin. This gene encodes a protein belonging to a class of huntingtin interacting proteins characterized by WW motifs. This protein is a histone methyltransferase that is specific for lysine-36 of histone H3, and methylation of this residue is associated with active chromatin. This protein also contains a novel transcriptional activation domain and has been found associated with hyperphosphorylated RNA polymerase II.
SETD7	Histone methyltransferase that specifically monomethylates 'Lys-4' of histone H3. H3 'Lys-4' methylation represents a specific tag for epigenetic transcriptional activation. Plays a central role in the transcriptional activation of genes such as collagenase or insulin. Recruited by IPF1/PDX-1 to the insulin promoter, leading to activate transcription. Has also methyltransferase activity toward non-histone proteins such as p53/TP53, TAF10, and possibly TAF7 by recognizing and binding the -K in substrate proteins. Monomethylates 'Lys-189' of TAF10, leading to increase the affinity of TAF10 for RNA polymerase II. Monomethylates 'Lys-372' of p53/TP53, stabilizing p53/TP53 and increasing p53/TP53-mediated transcriptional activation.
SETDB1	This gene encodes a histone methyltransferase which regulates histone methylation, gene silencing, and transcriptional repression. This gene has been identified as a target for treatment in Huntington Disease, given that gene silencing and transcription dysfunction likely play a role in the disease pathogenesis. Alternatively spliced transcript variants of this gene have been described.
SETMAR	This gene encodes a fusion protein that contains an N-terminal histone-lysine N-methyltransferase domain and a C-terminal mariner transposase domain. The encoded protein binds DNA and functions in DNA repair activities including non-homologous end joining and double strand break repair. The SET domain portion of this protein specifically methylates histone H3 lysines 4 and 36. This gene exists as a fusion gene only in anthropoid primates, other organisms lack mariner transposase domain. Alternate splicing results in multiple transcript variants.
SF3B1	This gene encodes subunit 1 of the splicing factor 3b protein complex. Splicing factor 3b, together with splicing factor 3a and a 12S RNA unit, forms the U2 small nuclear ribonucleoproteins complex (U2 snRNP). The splicing factor 3b/3a complex binds pre-mRNA upstream of the intron's branch site in a sequence independent manner and may anchor the U2 snRNP to the pre-mRNA. Splicing factor 3b is also a component of the minor U12-type spliceosome. The carboxy-terminal two-thirds of subunit 1 have 22 non-identical, tandem HEAT repeats that form rod-like, helical structures. Alternative splicing results in multiple transcript variants encoding different isoforms.
SF3B2	This gene encodes subunit 2 of the splicing factor 3b protein complex. Splicing factor 3b, together with splicing factor 3a and a 12S RNA unit, forms the U2 small nuclear ribonucleoproteins complex (U2 snRNP). The splicing factor 3b/3a complex binds pre-mRNA upstream of the intron's branch site in a sequence-independent manner and may anchor the U2 snRNP to the pre-mRNA. Splicing factor 3b is also a component of the minor U12-type spliceosome. Subunit 2 associates with pre-mRNA upstream of the branch site at the anchoring site. Subunit 2 also interacts directly with subunit 4 of the splicing factor 3b complex. Subunit 2 is a highly hydrophilic protein with a proline-rich N-terminus and a glutamate-rich stretch in the C-terminus.
SF3B3	This gene encodes subunit 3 of the splicing factor 3b protein complex. Splicing factor 3b, together with splicing factor 3a and a 12S RNA unit, forms the U2 small nuclear ribonucleoproteins complex (U2 snRNP). The splicing factor 3b/3a complex binds pre-mRNA upstream of the intron's branch site in a sequence independent manner and may anchor the U2 snRNP to the pre-mRNA. Splicing factor 3b is also a component of the minor U12-type spliceosome. Subunit 3 has also been identified as a component of the STAGA (SPT3-TAF(II)31-GCN5L acetylase) transcription coactivator-HAT (histone acetyltransferase) complex, and the TFTC (TATA-binding-protein-free TAF(II)-containing complex). These complexes may function in chromatin modification, transcription, splicing, and DNA repair.
SFMBT1	This gene shares high similarity with the Drosophila Scm (sex comb on midleg) gene. It encodes a protein which contains four malignant brain tumor repeat (mbt) domains and may be involved in antigen recognition.
SFN	This gene encodes a cell cycle checkpoint protein. The encoded protein binds to translation and initiation factors and functions as a regulator of mitotic translation. In response to DNA damage this protein plays a role in preventing DNA errors during mitosis.
SFRP1	This gene encodes a member of the SFRP family that contains a cysteine-rich domain homologous to the putative Wnt-binding site of Frizzled proteins. Members of this family act as soluble modulators of Wnt signaling; epigenetic silencing of SFRP genes leads to deregulated activation of the Wnt-pathway which is associated with cancer. This gene may also be involved in determining the polarity of photoreceptor cells in the retina.
SFTPD	The protein encoded by this gene is part of the innate immune response, protecting the lungs against inhaled microorganisms and chemicals. The encoded protein may also be involved in surfactant metabolism.
SGK1	This gene encodes a serine/threonine protein kinase that plays an important role in cellular stress response. This kinase activates certain potassium, sodium, and chloride channels, suggesting an involvement in the regulation of processes such as cell survival, neuronal excitability, and renal sodium excretion. High levels of expression of this gene may contribute to conditions such as hypertension and diabetic nephropathy. Several alternatively spliced transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been noted for this gene.
SGK2	This gene encodes a serine/threonine protein kinase. Although this gene product is similar to serum- and glucocorticoid-induced protein kinase (SGK), this gene is not induced by serum or glucocorticoids. This gene is induced in response to signals that activate phosphatidylinositol 3-kinase, which is also true for SGK. Alternative splicing results in multiple transcript variants.
SGK3	This gene is a member of the Ser/Thr protein kinase family and encodes a phosphoprotein with a PX (phox homology) domain. The protein phosphorylates several target proteins and has a role in neutral amino acid transport and activation of potassium and chloride channels. Alternate transcriptional splice variants, encoding different isoforms, have been characterized.
SGMS1	The protein encoded by this gene is predicted to be a five-pass transmembrane protein. This gene may be predominately expressed in brain.
SGMS2	Sphingomyelin, a major component of cell and Golgi membranes, is made by the transfer of phosphocholine from phosphatidylcholine onto ceramide, with diacylglycerol as a side product. The protein encoded by this gene is an enzyme that catalyzes this reaction primarily at the cell membrane. The synthesis is reversible, and this enzyme can catalyze the reaction in either direction. The encoded protein is required for cell growth. Three transcript variants encoding the same protein have been found for this gene. There is evidence for more variants, but the full-length nature of their transcripts has not been determined.
SGPL1	Cleaves phosphorylated sphingoid bases (PSBs), such as sphingosine-1-phosphate, into fatty aldehydes and phosphoethanolamine. Elevates stress-induced ceramide production and apoptosis .
SH2D1A	This gene encodes a protein that plays a major role in the bidirectional stimulation of T and B cells. This protein contains an SH2 domain and a short tail. It associates with the signaling lymphocyte-activation molecule, thereby acting as an inhibitor of this transmembrane protein by blocking the recruitment of the SH2-domain-containing signal-transduction molecule SHP-2 to its docking site. This protein can also bind to other related surface molecules that are expressed on activated T, B and NK cells, thereby modifying signal transduction pathways in these cells. Mutations in this gene cause lymphoproliferative syndrome X-linked type 1 or Duncan disease, a rare immunodeficiency characterized by extreme susceptibility to infection with Epstein-Barr virus, with symptoms including severe mononucleosis and malignant lymphoma. Multiple transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been found for this gene.
SH2D2A	This gene encodes an adaptor protein thought to function in T-cell signal transduction. A related protein in mouse is responsible for the activation of lymphocyte-specific protein-tyrosine kinase and functions in downstream signaling. Alternative splicing results in multiple transcript variants.
SHC1	This gene encodes three main isoforms that differ in activities and subcellular location. While all three are adapter proteins in signal transduction pathways, the longest (p66Shc) may be involved in regulating life span and the effects of reactive oxygen species. The other two isoforms, p52Shc and p46Shc, link activated receptor tyrosine kinases to the Ras pathway by recruitment of the GRB2/SOS complex. p66Shc is not involved in Ras activation. Unlike the other two isoforms, p46Shc is targeted to the mitochondrial matrix. Several transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been found for this gene.
SHC2	Signaling adapter that couples activated growth factor receptors to signaling pathway in neurons. Involved in the signal transduction pathways of neurotrophin-activated Trk receptors in cortical neurons (By similarity).
SHH	This gene encodes a protein that is instrumental in patterning the early embryo. It has been implicated as the key inductive signal in patterning of the ventral neural tube, the anterior-posterior limb axis, and the ventral somites. Of three human proteins showing sequence and functional similarity to the sonic hedgehog protein of Drosophila, this protein is the most similar. The protein is made as a precursor that is autocatalytically cleaved; the N-terminal portion is soluble and contains the signalling activity while the C-terminal portion is involved in precursor processing. More importantly, the C-terminal product covalently attaches a cholesterol moiety to the N-terminal product, restricting the N-terminal product to the cell surface and preventing it from freely diffusing throughout the developing embryo. Defects in this protein or in its signalling pathway are a cause of holoprosencephaly (HPE), a disorder in which the developing forebrain fails to correctly separate into right and left hemispheres. HPE is manifested by facial deformities. It is also thought that mutations in this gene or in its signalling pathway may be responsible for VACTERL syndrome, which is characterized by vertebral defects, anal atresia, tracheoesophageal fistula with esophageal atresia, radial and renal dysplasia, cardiac anomalies, and limb abnormalities. Additionally, mutations in a long range enhancer located approximately 1 megabase upstream of this gene disrupt limb patterning and can result in preaxial polydactyly.
SHMT1	This gene encodes the cytosolic form of serine hydroxymethyltransferase, a pyridoxal phosphate-containing enzyme that catalyzes the reversible conversion of serine and tetrahydrofolate to glycine and 5,10-methylene tetrahydrofolate. This reaction provides one-carbon units for synthesis of methionine, thymidylate, and purines in the cytoplasm. This gene is located within the Smith-Magenis syndrome region on chromosome 17. A pseudogene of this gene is located on the short arm of chromosome 1. Alternative splicing results in multiple transcript variants.
SI	This gene encodes a sucrase-isomaltase enzyme that is expressed in the intestinal brush border. The encoded protein is synthesized as a precursor protein that is cleaved by pancreatic proteases into two enzymatic subunits sucrase and isomaltase. These two subunits heterodimerize to form the sucrose-isomaltase complex. This complex is essential for the digestion of dietary carbohydrates including starch, sucrose and isomaltose. Mutations in this gene are the cause of congenital sucrase-isomaltase deficiency.
SIGLEC7	Putative adhesion molecule that mediates sialic-acid dependent binding to cells. Preferentially binds to alpha-2,3- and alpha-2,6-linked sialic acid. Also binds disialogangliosides (disialogalactosyl globoside, disialyl lactotetraosylceramide and disialyl GalNAc lactotetraoslylceramide). The sialic acid recognition site may be masked by cis interactions with sialic acids on the same cell surface. In the immune response, may act as an inhibitory receptor upon ligand induced tyrosine phosphorylation by recruiting cytoplasmic phosphatase(s) via their SH2 domain(s) that block signal transduction through dephosphorylation of signaling molecules. Mediates inhibition of natural killer cells cytotoxicity. May play a role in hemopoiesis. Inhibits differentiation of CD34+ cell precursors towards myelomonocytic cell lineage and proliferation of leukemic myeloid cells (in vitro).
SIGMAR1	This gene encodes a receptor protein that interacts with a variety of psychotomimetic drugs, including cocaine and amphetamines. The receptor is believed to play an important role in the cellular functions of various tissues associated with the endocrine, immune, and nervous systems. As indicated by its previous name, opioid receptor sigma 1 (OPRS1), the product of this gene was erroneously thought to function as an opioid receptor; it is now thought to be a non-opioid receptor. Mutations in this gene has been associated with juvenile amyotrophic lateral sclerosis 16. Alternative splicing of this gene results in transcript variants encoding distinct isoforms.
SIK1	This gene encodes a serine/threonine protein kinase that contains a ubiquitin-associated (UBA) domain. The encoded protein is a member of the adenosine monophosphate-activated kinase (AMPK) subfamily of kinases that play a role in conserved signal transduction pathways. A mutation in this gene is associated with early infantile epileptic encephalopathy 30.
SIK2	Phosphorylates 'Ser-794' of IRS1 in insulin-stimulated adipocytes, potentially modulating the efficiency of insulin signal transduction. Inhibits CREB activity by phosphorylating and repressing TORCs, the CREB-specific coactivators.
SIK3	Positive regulator of mTOR signaling that functions by triggering the degradation of DEPTOR, an mTOR inhibitor. Involved in the dynamic regulation of mTOR signaling in chondrocyte differentiation during skeletogenesis .
SIRT1	This gene encodes a member of the sirtuin family of proteins, homologs to the yeast Sir2 protein. Members of the sirtuin family are characterized by a sirtuin core domain and grouped into four classes. The functions of human sirtuins have not yet been determined; however, yeast sirtuin proteins are known to regulate epigenetic gene silencing and suppress recombination of rDNA. Studies suggest that the human sirtuins may function as intracellular regulatory proteins with mono-ADP-ribosyltransferase activity. The protein encoded by this gene is included in class I of the sirtuin family. Alternative splicing results in multiple transcript variants.
SIRT2	This gene encodes a member of the sirtuin family of proteins, homologs to the yeast Sir2 protein. Members of the sirtuin family are characterized by a sirtuin core domain and grouped into four classes. The functions of human sirtuins have not yet been determined; however, yeast sirtuin proteins are known to regulate epigenetic gene silencing and suppress recombination of rDNA. Studies suggest that the human sirtuins may function as intracellular regulatory proteins with mono-ADP-ribosyltransferase activity. The protein encoded by this gene is included in class I of the sirtuin family. Several transcript variants are resulted from alternative splicing of this gene.
SIRT3	SIRT3 encodes a member of the sirtuin family of class III histone deacetylases, homologs to the yeast Sir2 protein. The encoded protein is found exclusively in mitochondria, where it can eliminate reactive oxygen species, inhibit apoptosis, and prevent the formation of cancer cells. SIRT3 has far-reaching effects on nuclear gene expression, cancer, cardiovascular disease, neuroprotection, aging, and metabolic control.
SIRT4	This gene encodes a member of the sirtuin family of proteins, homologs to the yeast Sir2 protein. Members of the sirtuin family are characterized by a sirtuin core domain and grouped into four classes. The functions of human sirtuins have not yet been determined; however, yeast sirtuin proteins are known to regulate epigenetic gene silencing and suppress recombination of rDNA. Studies suggest that the human sirtuins may function as intracellular regulatory proteins with mono-ADP-ribosyltransferase activity. The protein encoded by this gene is included in class IV of the sirtuin family.
SIRT5	This gene encodes a member of the sirtuin family of proteins, homologs to the yeast Sir2 protein. Members of the sirtuin family are characterized by a sirtuin core domain and grouped into four classes. The functions of human sirtuins have not yet been determined; however, yeast sirtuin proteins are known to regulate epigenetic gene silencing and suppress recombination of rDNA. Studies suggest that the human sirtuins may function as intracellular regulatory proteins with mono-ADP-ribosyltransferase activity. The protein encoded by this gene is included in class III of the sirtuin family. Alternative splicing of this gene results in multiple transcript variants.
SIRT6	This gene encodes a member of the sirtuin family of NAD-dependent enzymes that are implicated in cellular stress resistance, genomic stability, aging and energy homeostasis. The encoded protein is localized to the nucleus, exhibits ADP-ribosyl transferase and histone deacetylase activities, and plays a role in DNA repair, maintenance of telomeric chromatin, inflammation, lipid and glucose metabolism. Alternative splicing results in multiple transcript variants encoding different isoforms.
SIRT7	This gene encodes a member of the sirtuin family of proteins, homologs to the yeast Sir2 protein. Members of the sirtuin family are characterized by a sirtuin core domain and grouped into four classes. The functions of human sirtuins have not yet been determined; however, yeast sirtuin proteins are known to regulate epigenetic gene silencing and suppress recombination of rDNA. Studies suggest that the human sirtuins may function as intracellular regulatory proteins with mono-ADP-ribosyltransferase activity. The protein encoded by this gene is included in class IV of the sirtuin family.
SKP1	This gene encodes a component of SCF complexes, which are composed of this protein, cullin 1, a ring-box protein, and one member of the F-box family of proteins. This protein binds directly to the F-box motif found in F-box proteins. SCF complexes are involved in the regulated ubiquitination of specific protein substrates, which targets them for degradation by the proteosome. Specific F-box proteins recognize different target protein(s), and many specific SCF substrates have been identified including regulators of cell cycle progression and development. Studies have also characterized the protein as an RNA polymerase II elongation factor. Alternative splicing of this gene results in two transcript variants. A related pseudogene has been identified on chromosome 7.
SLAMF7	Self-ligand receptor of the signaling lymphocytic activation molecule (SLAM) family. SLAM receptors triggered by homo- or heterotypic cell-cell interactions are modulating the activation and differentiation of a wide variety of immune cells and thus are involved in the regulation and interconnection of both innate and adaptive immune response. Activities are controlled by presence or absence of small cytoplasmic adapter proteins, SH2D1A/SAP and/or SH2D1B/EAT-2. Isoform 1 mediates NK cell activation through a SH2D1A-independent extracellular signal-regulated ERK-mediated pathway .
SLC10A1	The protein encoded by this gene belongs to the sodium/bile acid cotransporter family, which are integral membrane glycoproteins that participate in the enterohepatic circulation of bile acids. Two homologous transporters are involved in the reabsorption of bile acids; the ileal sodium/bile acid cotransporter with an apical cell localization that absorbs bile acids from the intestinal lumen, bile duct and kidney, and the liver-specific sodium/bile acid cotransporter, represented by this protein, that is found in the basolateral membranes of hepatocytes. Bile acids are the catabolic product of cholesterol metabolism, hence this protein is important for cholesterol homeostasis.
SLC10A2	This gene encodes a sodium/bile acid cotransporter. This transporter is the primary mechanism for uptake of intestinal bile acids by apical cells in the distal ileum. Bile acids are the catabolic product of cholesterol metabolism, so this protein is also critical for cholesterol homeostasis. Mutations in this gene cause primary bile acid malabsorption (PBAM); muatations in this gene may also be associated with other diseases of the liver and intestines, such as familial hypertriglyceridemia (FHTG).
SLC11A1	This gene is a member of the solute carrier family 11 (proton-coupled divalent metal ion transporters) family and encodes a multi-pass membrane protein. The protein functions as a divalent transition metal (iron and manganese) transporter involved in iron metabolism and host resistance to certain pathogens. Mutations in this gene have been associated with susceptibility to infectious diseases such as tuberculosis and leprosy, and inflammatory diseases such as rheumatoid arthritis and Crohn disease. Alternatively spliced variants that encode different protein isoforms have been described but the full-length nature of only one has been determined.
SLC11A2	This gene encodes a member of the solute carrier family 11 protein family. The product of this gene transports divalent metals and is involved in iron absorption. Mutations in this gene are associated with hypochromic microcytic anemia with iron overload. A related solute carrier family 11 protein gene is located on chromosome 2. Multiple transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been found for this gene.
SLC12A1	This gene encodes a kidney-specific sodium-potassium-chloride cotransporter that is expressed on the luminal membrane of renal epithelial cells of the thick ascending limb of Henle's loop and the macula densa. It plays a key role in concentrating urine and accounts for most of the NaCl resorption. It is sensitive to such diuretics as furosemide and bumetanide. Some Bartter-like syndromes result from defects in this gene. Alternative splicing results in multiple transcript variants encoding distinct isoforms. Additional splice variants have been described but their biological validity in humans has not been experimentally proven.
SLC12A2	The protein encoded by this gene mediates sodium and chloride transport and reabsorption. The encoded protein is a membrane protein and is important in maintaining proper ionic balance and cell volume. This protein is phosphorylated in response to DNA damage. Three transcript variants encoding two different isoforms have been found for this gene.
SLC12A3	This gene encodes a renal thiazide-sensitive sodium-chloride cotransporter that is important for electrolyte homeostasis. This cotransporter mediates sodium and chloride reabsorption in the distal convoluted tubule. Mutations in this gene cause Gitelman syndrome, a disease similar to Bartter's syndrome, that is characterized by hypokalemic alkalosis combined with hypomagnesemia, low urinary calcium, and increased renin activity associated with normal blood pressure. This cotransporter is the target for thiazide diuretics that are used for treating high blood pressure. Multiple transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been found for this gene.
SLC12A5	K-Cl cotransporters are proteins that lower intracellular chloride concentrations below the electrochemical equilibrium potential. The protein encoded by this gene is an integral membrane K-Cl cotransporter that can function in either a net efflux or influx pathway, depending on the chemical concentration gradients of potassium and chloride. The encoded protein can act as a homomultimer, or as a heteromultimer with other K-Cl cotransporters, to maintain chloride homeostasis in neurons. Alternative splicing results in two transcript variants encoding different isoforms.
SLC13A2	The protein encoded by this gene is a sodium-coupled citrate transporter that is regulated by the chaperone activity of cyclophilin b. The encoded protein may play a role in the formation of kidney stones.
SLC13A3	Mammalian sodium-dicarboxylate cotransporters transport succinate and other Krebs cycle intermediates. They fall into 2 categories based on their substrate affinity: low affinity and high affinity. Both the low- and high-affinity transporters play an important role in the handling of citrate by the kidneys. The protein encoded by this gene represents the high-affinity form. Alternatively spliced transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been found for this gene, although the full-length nature of some of them have not been characterized yet.
SLC13A5	This gene encodes a protein belonging to the solute carrier family 13 group of proteins. This family member is a sodium-dependent citrate cotransporter that may regulate metabolic processes. Mutations in this gene cause early infantile epileptic encephalopathy 25. Alternative splicing results in multiple transcript variants.
SLC14A1	The protein encoded by this gene is a membrane transporter that mediates urea transport in erythrocytes. This gene forms the basis for the Kidd blood group system.
SLC15A1	This gene encodes an intestinal hydrogen peptide cotransporter that is a member of the solute carrier family 15. The encoded protein is localized to the brush border membrane of the intestinal epithelium and mediates the uptake of di- and tripeptides from the lumen into the enterocytes. This protein plays an important role in the uptake and digestion of dietary proteins. This protein also facilitates the absorption of numerous peptidomimetic drugs.
SLC15A2	The mammalian kidney expresses a proton-coupled peptide transporter that is responsible for the absorption of small peptides, as well as beta-lactam antibiotics and other peptide-like drugs, from the tubular filtrate. This transporter, SLC15A2, belongs to the same gene family as SLC15A1 (MIM 600544), the proton-coupled peptide transporter found in the small intestine (Liu et al, 1995
SLC16A1	The protein encoded by this gene is a proton-linked monocarboxylate transporter that catalyzes the movement of many monocarboxylates, such as lactate and pyruvate, across the plasma membrane. Mutations in this gene are associated with erythrocyte lactate transporter defect. Alternatively spliced transcript variants have been found for this gene.
SLC16A10	SLC16A10 is a member of a family of plasma membrane amino acid transporters that mediate the Na(+)-independent transport of aromatic amino acids across the plasma membrane.
SLC16A3	Lactic acid and pyruvate transport across plasma membranes is catalyzed by members of the proton-linked monocarboxylate transporter (MCT) family, which has been designated solute carrier family-16. Each MCT appears to have slightly different substrate and inhibitor specificities and transport kinetics, which are related to the metabolic requirements of the tissues in which it is found. The MCTs, which include MCT1 (SLC16A1; MIM 600682) and MCT2 (SLC16A7; MIM 603654), are characterized by 12 predicted transmembrane domains (Price et al., 1998
SLC16A7	This gene is a member of the monocarboxylate transporter family. Members in this family transport metabolites, such as lactate, pyruvate, and ketone bodies. The protein encoded by this gene catalyzes the proton-linked transport of monocarboxylates and has the highest affinity for pyruvate. This protein has been reported to be more highly expressed in prostate and colorectal cancer specimens when compared to control specimens. Alternative splicing results in multiple transcript variants.
SLC16A8	SLC16A8 is a member of a family of proton-coupled monocarboxylate transporters that mediate lactate transport across cell membranes (Yoon et al., 1999
SLC17A1	Important for the resorption of phosphate by the kidney. May be involved in actively transporting phosphate into cells via Na(+) cotransport in the renal brush border membrane. Plays a role in urate transport in the kidney .
SLC17A2	May be involved in actively transporting phosphate into cells via Na(+) cotransport.
SLC18A1	The vesicular monoamine transporter acts to accumulate cytosolic monoamines into vesicles, using the proton gradient maintained across the vesicular membrane. Its proper function is essential to the correct activity of the monoaminergic systems that have been implicated in several human neuropsychiatric disorders. The transporter is a site of action of important drugs, including reserpine and tetrabenazine (Peter et al., 1993
SLC18A2	This gene encodes an transmembrane protein that functions as an ATP-dependent transporter of monoamines, such as dopamine, norepinephrine, serotonin, and histamine. This protein transports amine neurotransmitters into synaptic vesicles. Polymorphisms in this gene may be associated with schizophrenia, bipolar disorder, and other neurological/psychiatric ailments.
SLC18A3	This gene is a member of the vesicular amine transporter family. The encoded transmembrane protein transports acetylcholine into secretory vesicles for release into the extracellular space. Acetylcholine transport utilizes a proton gradient established by a vacuolar ATPase. This gene is located within the first intron of the choline acetyltransferase gene.
SLC19A1	The membrane protein encoded by this gene is a transporter of folate and is involved in the regulation of intracellular concentrations of folate. Three transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been found for this gene.
SLC19A2	This gene encodes the thiamin transporter protein. Mutations in this gene cause thiamin-responsive megaloblastic anemia syndrome (TRMA), which is an autosomal recessive disorder characterized by diabetes mellitus, megaloblastic anemia and sensorineural deafness. Two transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been found for this gene.
SLC1A1	This gene encodes a member of the high-affinity glutamate transporters that play an essential role in transporting glutamate across plasma membranes. In brain, these transporters are crucial in terminating the postsynaptic action of the neurotransmitter glutamate, and in maintaining extracellular glutamate concentrations below neurotoxic levels. This transporter also transports aspartate, and mutations in this gene are thought to cause dicarboxylicamino aciduria, also known as glutamate-aspartate transport defect.
SLC1A2	This gene encodes a member of a family of solute transporter proteins. The membrane-bound protein is the principal transporter that clears the excitatory neurotransmitter glutamate from the extracellular space at synapses in the central nervous system. Glutamate clearance is necessary for proper synaptic activation and to prevent neuronal damage from excessive activation of glutamate receptors. Improper regulation of this gene is thought to be associated with several neurological disorders. Alternatively spliced transcript variants of this gene have been identified.
SLC1A3	This gene encodes a member of a member of a high affinity glutamate transporter family. This gene functions in the termination of excitatory neurotransmission in central nervous system. Mutations are associated with episodic ataxia, Type 6. Alternative splicing results in multiple transcript variants.
SLC1A5	The SLC1A5 gene encodes a sodium-dependent neutral amino acid transporter that can act as a receptor for RD114/type D retrovirus (Larriba et al., 2001
SLC22A1	Polyspecific organic cation transporters in the liver, kidney, intestine, and other organs are critical for elimination of many endogenous small organic cations as well as a wide array of drugs and environmental toxins. This gene is one of three similar cation transporter genes located in a cluster on chromosome 6. The encoded protein contains twelve putative transmembrane domains and is a plasma integral membrane protein. Two transcript variants encoding two different isoforms have been found for this gene, but only the longer variant encodes a functional transporter.
SLC22A11	The protein encoded by this gene is involved in the sodium-independent transport and excretion of organic anions, some of which are potentially toxic. The encoded protein is an integral membrane protein and is found mainly in the kidney and in the placenta, where it may act to prevent potentially harmful organic anions from reaching the fetus. Alternative splicing results in multiple transcript variants.
SLC22A12	The protein encoded by this gene is a member of the organic anion transporter (OAT) family, and it acts as a urate transporter to regulate urate levels in blood. This protein is an integral membrane protein primarily found in epithelial cells of the proximal tubule of the kidney. An elevated level of serum urate, hyperuricemia, is associated with increased incidences of gout, and mutations in this gene cause renal hypouricemia type 1. Alternative splicing results in multiple transcript variants.
SLC22A16	This gene encodes a member of the organic zwitterion transporter protein family which transports carnitine. The encoded protein has also been shown to transport anticancer drugs like bleomycin (PMID: 20037140) successful treatment has been correlated with the level of activity of this transporter in tumor cells.
SLC22A2	Polyspecific organic cation transporters in the liver, kidney, intestine, and other organs are critical for elimination of many endogenous small organic cations as well as a wide array of drugs and environmental toxins. This gene is one of three similar cation transporter genes located in a cluster on chromosome 6. The encoded protein contains twelve putative transmembrane domains and is a plasma integral membrane protein. It is found primarily in the kidney, where it may mediate the first step in cation reabsorption.
SLC22A3	Polyspecific organic cation transporters in the liver, kidney, intestine, and other organs are critical for elimination of many endogenous small organic cations as well as a wide array of drugs and environmental toxins. This gene is one of three similar cation transporter genes located in a cluster on chromosome 6. The encoded protein contains twelve putative transmembrane domains and is a plasma integral membrane protein.
SLC22A4	Polyspecific organic cation transporters in the liver, kidney, intestine, and other organs are critical for elimination of many endogenous small organic cations as well as a wide array of drugs and environmental toxins. The encoded protein is an organic cation transporter and plasma integral membrane protein containing eleven putative transmembrane domains as well as a nucleotide-binding site motif. Transport by this protein is at least partially ATP-dependent.
SLC22A5	Polyspecific organic cation transporters in the liver, kidney, intestine, and other organs are critical for elimination of many endogenous small organic cations as well as a wide array of drugs and environmental toxins. The encoded protein is a plasma integral membrane protein which functions both as an organic cation transporter and as a sodium-dependent high affinity carnitine transporter. The encoded protein is involved in the active cellular uptake of carnitine. Mutations in this gene are the cause of systemic primary carnitine deficiency (CDSP), an autosomal recessive disorder manifested early in life by hypoketotic hypoglycemia and acute metabolic decompensation, and later in life by skeletal myopathy or cardiomyopathy. Alternative splicing of this gene results in multiple transcript variants.
SLC22A6	The protein encoded by this gene is involved in the sodium-dependent transport and excretion of organic anions, some of which are potentially toxic. The encoded protein is an integral membrane protein and may be localized to the basolateral membrane. Four transcript variants encoding four different isoforms have been found for this gene.
SLC22A7	The protein encoded by this gene is involved in the sodium-independent transport and excretion of organic anions, some of which are potentially toxic. The encoded protein is an integral membrane protein and appears to be localized to the basolateral membrane of the kidney. Alternatively spliced transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been described.
SLC22A8	This gene encodes a protein involved in the sodium-independent transport and excretion of organic anions, some of which are potentially toxic. The encoded protein is an integral membrane protein and appears to be localized to the basolateral membrane of the kidney. Multiple alternatively spliced transcript variants that encode different protein isoforms have been described for this gene.
SLC22A9	Sodium-independent organic anion transporter which exhibits high specificity for sulfated conjugates of xenobiotics and steroid hormones. It is also specifically activated by 3 to 5 carbons-containing short-chain fatty acids/SCFAs, including propionate, butyrate and valerate. May operate the exchange of sulfated organic components against short-chain fatty acids/SCFAs at the sinusoidal membrane of hepatocytes.
SLC23A2	The absorption of vitamin C into the body and its distribution to organs requires two sodium-dependent vitamin C transporters. This gene encodes one of the two required transporters and the encoded protein accounts for tissue-specific uptake of vitamin C. Previously, this gene had an official symbol of SLC23A1.
SLC25A20	This gene product is one of several closely related mitochondrial-membrane carrier proteins that shuttle substrates between cytosol and the intramitochondrial matrix space. This protein mediates the transport of acylcarnitines into mitochondrial matrix for their oxidation by the mitochondrial fatty acid-oxidation pathway. Mutations in this gene are associated with carnitine-acylcarnitine translocase deficiency, which can cause a variety of pathological conditions such as hypoglycemia, cardiac arrest, hepatomegaly, hepatic dysfunction and muscle weakness, and is usually lethal in new born and infants.
SLC25A5	This gene is a member of the mitochondrial carrier subfamily of solute carrier protein genes. The product of this gene functions as a gated pore that translocates ADP from the cytoplasm into the mitochondrial matrix and ATP from the mitochondrial matrix into the cytoplasm. The protein forms a homodimer embedded in the inner mitochondria membrane. Suppressed expression of this gene has been shown to induce apoptosis and inhibit tumor growth. The human genome contains several non-transcribed pseudogenes of this gene.
SLC27A1	Mediates the ATP-dependent import of long-chain fatty acids (LCFA) into the cell by mediating their translocation at the plasma membrane .
SLC27A2	The protein encoded by this gene is an isozyme of long-chain fatty-acid-coenzyme A ligase family. Although differing in substrate specificity, subcellular localization, and tissue distribution, all isozymes of this family convert free long-chain fatty acids into fatty acyl-CoA esters, and thereby play a key role in lipid biosynthesis and fatty acid degradation. This isozyme activates long-chain, branched-chain and very-long-chain fatty acids containing 22 or more carbons to their CoA derivatives. It is expressed primarily in liver and kidney, and is present in both endoplasmic reticulum and peroxisomes, but not in mitochondria. Its decreased peroxisomal enzyme activity is in part responsible for the biochemical pathology in X-linked adrenoleukodystrophy. Alternatively spliced transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been found for this gene.
SLC27A4	This gene encodes a member of a family of fatty acid transport proteins, which are involved in translocation of long-chain fatty acids cross the plasma membrane. This protein is expressed at high levels on the apical side of mature enterocytes in the small intestine, and appears to be the principal fatty acid transporter in enterocytes. Clinical studies suggest this gene as a candidate gene for the insulin resistance syndrome. Mutations in this gene have been associated with ichthyosis prematurity syndrome.
SLC27A5	The protein encoded by this gene is an isozyme of very long-chain acyl-CoA synthetase (VLCS). It is capable of activating very long-chain fatty-acids containing 24- and 26-carbons. It is expressed in liver and associated with endoplasmic reticulum but not with peroxisomes. Its primary role is in fatty acid elongation or complex lipid synthesis rather than in degradation. This gene has a mouse ortholog.
SLC28A1	Sodium-dependent and pyrimidine-selective. Exhibits the transport characteristics of the nucleoside transport system cit or N2 subtype (N2/cit) (selective for pyrimidine nucleosides and adenosine). It also transports the antiviral pyrimidine nucleoside analogs 3'-azido-3'-deoxythymidine (AZT) and 2',3'-dideoxycytidine (ddC). It may be involved in the intestinal absorption and renal handling of pyrimidine nucleoside analogs used to treat acquired immunodeficiency syndrome (AIDS). It has the following selective inhibition: adenosine, thymidine, cytidine, uridine >> guanosine, inosine.
SLC28A2	Sodium-dependent and purine-selective transporter. Exhibits the transport characteristics of the nucleoside transport system cif or N1 subtype (N1/cif) (selective for purine nucleosides and uridine). Plays a critical role in specific uptake and salvage of purine nucleosides in kidney and other tissues.
SLC28A3	Nucleoside transporters, such as SLC28A3, regulate multiple cellular processes, including neurotransmission, vascular tone, adenosine concentration in the vicinity of cell surface receptors, and transport and metabolism of nucleoside drugs. SLC28A3 shows broad specificity for pyrimidine and purine nucleosides (Ritzel et al., 2001
SLC29A1	This gene is a member of the equilibrative nucleoside transporter family. The gene encodes a transmembrane glycoprotein that localizes to the plasma and mitochondrial membranes and mediates the cellular uptake of nucleosides from the surrounding medium. The protein is categorized as an equilibrative (as opposed to concentrative) transporter that is sensitive to inhibition by nitrobenzylthioinosine (NBMPR). Nucleoside transporters are required for nucleotide synthesis in cells that lack de novo nucleoside synthesis pathways, and are also necessary for the uptake of cytotoxic nucleosides used for cancer and viral chemotherapies. Multiple alternatively spliced variants, encoding the same protein, have been found for this gene.
SLC29A2	The uptake of nucleosides by transporters, such as SLC29A2, is essential for nucleotide synthesis by salvage pathways in cells that lack de novo biosynthetic pathways. Nucleoside transport also plays a key role in the regulation of many physiologic processes through its effect on adenosine concentration at the cell surface (Griffiths et al., 1997
SLC29A4	This gene encodes a member of the SLC29A/ENT transporter protein family. The encoded membrane protein catalyzes the reuptake of monoamines into presynaptic neurons, thus determining the intensity and duration of monoamine neural signaling. It has been shown to transport several compounds, including serotonin, dopamine, and the neurotoxin 1-methyl-4-phenylpyridinium. Alternative splicing results in multiple transcript variants.
SLC2A1	This gene encodes a major glucose transporter in the mammalian blood-brain barrier. The encoded protein is found primarily in the cell membrane and on the cell surface, where it can also function as a receptor for human T-cell leukemia virus (HTLV) I and II. Mutations in this gene have been found in a family with paroxysmal exertion-induced dyskinesia.
SLC2A2	This gene encodes an integral plasma membrane glycoprotein of the liver, islet beta cells, intestine, and kidney epithelium. The encoded protein mediates facilitated bidirectional glucose transport. Because of its low affinity for glucose, it has been suggested as a glucose sensor. Mutations in this gene are associated with susceptibility to diseases, including Fanconi-Bickel syndrome and noninsulin-dependent diabetes mellitus (NIDDM). Alternative splicing results in multiple transcript variants of this gene.
SLC2A3	Facilitative glucose transporter that can also mediate the uptake of various other monosaccharides across the cell membrane .
SLC2A4	This gene is a member of the solute carrier family 2 (facilitated glucose transporter) family and encodes a protein that functions as an insulin-regulated facilitative glucose transporter. In the absence of insulin, this integral membrane protein is sequestered within the cells of muscle and adipose tissue. Within minutes of insulin stimulation, the protein moves to the cell surface and begins to transport glucose across the cell membrane. Mutations in this gene have been associated with noninsulin-dependent diabetes mellitus (NIDDM).
SLC2A5	The protein encoded by this gene is a fructose transporter responsible for fructose uptake by the small intestine. The encoded protein also is necessary for the increase in blood pressure due to high dietary fructose consumption.
SLC2A9	This gene encodes a member of the SLC2A facilitative glucose transporter family. Members of this family play a significant role in maintaining glucose homeostasis. The encoded protein may play a role in the development and survival of chondrocytes in cartilage matrices. Two transcript variants encoding distinct isoforms have been identified for this gene.
SLC33A1	The protein encoded by this gene is required for the formation of O-acetylated (Ac) gangliosides. The encoded protein is predicted to contain 6 to 10 transmembrane domains, and a leucine zipper motif in transmembrane domain III. Defects in this gene have been reported to cause spastic paraplegia autosomal dominant type 42 (SPG42) in one Chinese family, but not in similar patients of European descent. Two transcript variants encoding the same protein have been found for this gene.
SLC34A1	This gene encodes a member of the type II sodium-phosphate cotransporter family. Mutations in this gene are associated with hypophosphatemia nephrolithiasis/osteoporosis 1. Alternative splicing results in multiple transcript variants.
SLC35A2	This gene encodes a member of the nucleotide-sugar transporter family. The encoded protein is a multi-pass membrane protein. It transports UDP-galactose from the cytosol into Golgi vesicles, where it serves as a glycosyl donor for the generation of glycans. Mutations in this gene cause congenital disorder of glycosylation type IIm (CDG2M). Multiple alternatively spliced transcript variants encoding distinct isoforms have been found for this gene.
SLC36A1	This gene encodes a member of the eukaryote-specific amino acid/auxin permease (AAAP) 1 transporter family. The encoded protein functions as a proton-dependent, small amino acid transporter. This gene is clustered with related family members on chromosome 5q33.1. Alternative splicing results in multiple transcript variants.
SLC37A4	This gene regulates glucose-6-phosphate transport from the cytoplasm to the lumen of the endoplasmic reticulum, in order to maintain glucose homeostasis. It also plays a role in ATP-mediated calcium sequestration in the lumen of the endoplasmic reticulum. Mutations in this gene have been associated with various forms of glycogen storage disease. Alternative splicing in this gene results in multiple transcript variants.
SLC40A1	The protein encoded by this gene is a cell membrane protein that may be involved in iron export from duodenal epithelial cells. Defects in this gene are a cause of hemochromatosis type 4 (HFE4).
SLC43A1	SLC43A1 belongs to the system L family of plasma membrane carrier proteins that transports large neutral amino acids (Babu et al., 2003
SLC44A4	The protein encoded by this gene may be a sodium-dependent transmembrane transport protein involved in the uptake of choline by cholinergic neurons. Defects in this gene can cause sialidosis, a lysosomal storage disease. Three transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been found for this gene.
SLC46A1	This gene encodes a transmembrane proton-coupled folate transporter protein that facilitates the movement of folate and antifolate substrates across cell membranes, optimally in acidic pH environments. This protein is also expressed in the brain and choroid plexus where it transports folates into the central nervous system. This protein further functions as a heme transporter in duodenal enterocytes, and potentially in other tissues like liver and kidney. Its localization to the apical membrane or cytoplasm of intestinal cells is modulated by dietary iron levels. Mutations in this gene are associated with autosomal recessive hereditary folate malabsorption disease. Alternatively spliced transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been described for this gene.
SLC47A1	This gene is located within the Smith-Magenis syndrome region on chromosome 17. It encodes a protein of unknown function.
SLC47A2	This gene encodes a protein belonging to a family of transporters involved in excretion of toxic electrolytes, both endogenous and exogenous, through urine and bile. This transporter family shares homology with the bacterial MATE (multidrug and toxin extrusion) protein family responsible for drug resistance. This gene is one of two members of the MATE transporter family located near each other on chromosome 17. Alternatively spliced transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been identified for this gene.
SLC4A7	This locus encodes a sodium bicarbonate cotransporter. The encoded transmembrane protein appears to transport sodium and bicarbonate ions in a 1:1 ratio, and is thus considered an electroneutral cotransporter. The encoded protein likely plays a critical role in regulation of intracellular pH involved in visual and auditory sensory transmission. Alternatively spliced transcript variants encoding distinct isoforms have been described.
SLC51A	Essential component of the Ost-alpha/Ost-beta complex, a heterodimer that acts as the intestinal basolateral transporter responsible for bile acid export from enterocytes into portal blood. Efficiently transports the major species of bile acids.
SLC5A1	This gene encodes a member of the sodium-dependent glucose transporter (SGLT) family. The encoded integral membrane protein is the primary mediator of dietary glucose and galactose uptake from the intestinal lumen. Mutations in this gene have been associated with glucose-galactose malabsorption. Multiple transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been found for this gene.
SLC5A11	Cotransporters, such as SLC5A11, represent a major class of proteins that make use of ion gradients to drive active transport for the cellular accumulation of nutrients, neurotransmitters, osmolytes, and ions Roll et al. (2002)
SLC5A2	This gene encodes a member of the sodium glucose cotransporter family which are sodium-dependent glucose transport proteins. The encoded protein is the major cotransporter involved in glucose reabsorption in the kidney. Mutations in this gene are associated with renal glucosuria. Two transcript variants, one protein-coding and one not, have been found for this gene.
SLC5A4	Has electrogenic activity in response to glucose, and may function as a glucose sensor .
SLC5A7	This gene encodes a sodium ion- and chloride ion-dependent high-affinity transporter that mediates choline uptake for acetylcholine synthesis in cholinergic neurons. The protein transports choline from the extracellular space into presynaptic terminals for synthesis into acetylcholine. Increased choline uptake results from increased density of this protein in synaptosomal plasma membranes in response to depolarization of cholinergic terminals. Dysfunction of cholinergic signaling has been implicated in various disorders including depression, attention-deficit disorder, and schizophrenia. An allelic variant of this gene is associated with autosomal dominant distal hereditary motor neuronopathy type VIIA. Alternative splicing results in multiple transcript variants.
SLC6A1	The protein encoded by this gene is a gamma-aminobutyric acid (GABA) transporter that localizes to the plasma membrane. The encoded protein removes GABA from the synaptic cleft, restoring it to presynaptic terminals.
SLC6A11	The protein encoded by this gene is a sodium-dependent transporter that uptakes gamma-aminobutyric acid (GABA), an inhibitory neurotransmitter, which ends the GABA neurotransmission. Defects in this gene may result in epilepsy, behavioral problems, or intellectual problems. Two transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been found for this gene.
SLC6A12	Transports betaine and GABA. May have a role in regulation of GABAergic transmission in the brain through the reuptake of GABA into presynaptic terminals, as well as in osmotic regulation.
SLC6A13	Sodium-dependent GABA and taurine transporter. In presynaptic terminals, regulates GABA signaling termination through GABA uptake. May also be involved in beta-alanine transport.
SLC6A15	This gene encodes a member of the solute carrier family 6 protein family which transports neutral amino acids. The encoded protein is thought to play a role in neuronal amino acid transport (PMID: 16185194) and may be associated with major depression (PMID: 21521612). Multiple transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been found for this gene.
SLC6A2	This gene encodes a member of the sodium:neurotransmitter symporter family. This member is a multi-pass membrane protein, which is responsible for reuptake of norepinephrine into presynaptic nerve terminals and is a regulator of norepinephrine homeostasis. Mutations in this gene cause orthostatic intolerance, a syndrome characterized by lightheadedness, fatigue, altered mentation and syncope. Alternatively spliced transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been identified in this gene.
SLC6A3	This gene encodes a dopamine transporter which is a member of the sodium- and chloride-dependent neurotransmitter transporter family. The 3' UTR of this gene contains a 40 bp tandem repeat, referred to as a variable number tandem repeat or VNTR, which can be present in 3 to 11 copies. Variation in the number of repeats is associated with idiopathic epilepsy, attention-deficit hyperactivity disorder, dependence on alcohol and cocaine, susceptibility to Parkinson disease and protection against nicotine dependence.
SLC6A4	This gene encodes an integral membrane protein that transports the neurotransmitter serotonin from synaptic spaces into presynaptic neurons. The encoded protein terminates the action of serotonin and recycles it in a sodium-dependent manner. This protein is a target of psychomotor stimulants, such as amphetamines and cocaine, and is a member of the sodium:neurotransmitter symporter family. A repeat length polymorphism in the promoter of this gene has been shown to affect the rate of serotonin uptake. There have been conflicting results in the literature about the possible effect, if any, that this polymorphism may play in behavior and depression.
SLC6A5	This gene encodes a sodium- and chloride-dependent glycine neurotransmitter transporter. This integral membrane glycoprotein is responsible for the clearance of extracellular glycine during glycine-mediated neurotransmission. This protein is found in glycinergic axons and maintains a high presynaptic pool of neurotransmitter at glycinergic synapses. Mutations in this gene cause hyperekplexia; a heterogenous neurological disorder characterized by exaggerated startle responses and neonatal apnea. Two transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been found for this gene.
SLC6A6	This gene encodes a multi-pass membrane protein that is a member of a family of sodium and chloride-ion dependent transporters. The encoded protein transports taurine and beta-alanine. There is a pseudogene for this gene on chromosome 21. Alternative splicing results in multiple transcript variants.
SLC6A7	This gene is a member of the gamma-aminobutyric acid (GABA) neurotransmitter gene family and encodes a high-affinity mammalian brain L-proline transporter protein. This transporter protein differs from other sodium-dependent plasma membrane carriers by its pharmacological specificity, kinetic properties, and ionic requirements.
SLC6A9	The amino acid glycine acts as an inhibitory neurotransmitter in the central nervous system. The protein encoded by this gene is one of two transporters that stop glycine signaling by removing it from the synaptic cleft.
SLC7A11	This gene encodes a member of a heteromeric, sodium-independent, anionic amino acid transport system that is highly specific for cysteine and glutamate. In this system, designated Xc(-), the anionic form of cysteine is transported in exchange for glutamate. This protein has been identified as the predominant mediator of Kaposi sarcoma-associated herpesvirus fusion and entry permissiveness into cells. Also, increased expression of this gene in primary gliomas (compared to normal brain tissue) was associated with increased glutamate secretion via the XCT channels, resulting in neuronal cell death.
SLC7A5	The heterodimer with SLC3A2 functions as sodium-independent, high-affinity transporter that mediates uptake of large neutral amino acids such as phenylalanine, tyrosine, L-DOPA, leucine, histidine, methionine and tryptophan .
SLC8A1	In cardiac myocytes, Ca(2+) concentrations alternate between high levels during contraction and low levels during relaxation. The increase in Ca(2+) concentration during contraction is primarily due to release of Ca(2+) from intracellular stores. However, some Ca(2+) also enters the cell through the sarcolemma (plasma membrane). During relaxation, Ca(2+) is sequestered within the intracellular stores. To prevent overloading of intracellular stores, the Ca(2+) that entered across the sarcolemma must be extruded from the cell. The Na(+)-Ca(2+) exchanger is the primary mechanism by which the Ca(2+) is extruded from the cell during relaxation. In the heart, the exchanger may play a key role in digitalis action. The exchanger is the dominant mechanism in returning the cardiac myocyte to its resting state following excitation.
SLC8B1	SLC24A6 belongs to a family of potassium-dependent sodium/calcium exchangers that maintain cellular calcium homeostasis through the electrogenic countertransport of 4 sodium ions for 1 calcium ion and 1 potassium ion (Cai and Lytton, 2004
SLC9A1	This gene encodes a Na+/H+ antiporter that is a member of the solute carrier family 9. The encoded protein is a plasma membrane transporter that is expressed in the kidney and intestine. This protein plays a central role in regulating pH homeostasis, cell migration and cell volume. This protein may also be involved in tumor growth.
SLC9A2	This gene encodes a member of the sodium-hydrogen exchanger (NHE) protein family. These proteins are involved in sodium-ion transport by exchanging intracellular hydrogen ions to external sodium ions and help in the regulation of cell pH and volume. The encoded protein is localized to the apical membrane and is involved in apical absorption of sodium.
SLC9A3	The protein encoded by this gene is an epithelial brush border Na/H exchanger that uses an inward sodium ion gradient to expel acids from the cell. Defects in this gene are a cause of congenital secretory sodium diarrhea. Pseudogenes of this gene exist on chromosomes 10 and 22.
SLC9A5	Involved in pH regulation to eliminate acids generated by active metabolism or to counter adverse environmental conditions. Major proton extruding system driven by the inward sodium ion chemical gradient. Plays an important role in signal transduction (By similarity).
SLCO1A2	This gene encodes a sodium-independent transporter which mediates cellular uptake of organic ions in the liver. Its substrates include bile acids, bromosulphophthalein, and some steroidal compounds. The protein is a member of the SLC21A family of solute carriers. Alternative splicing of this gene results in multiple transcript variants.
SLCO1B1	This gene encodes a liver-specific member of the organic anion transporter family. The encoded protein is a transmembrane receptor that mediates the sodium-independent uptake of numerous endogenous compounds including bilirubin, 17-beta-glucuronosyl estradiol and leukotriene C4. This protein is also involved in the removal of drug compounds such as statins, bromosulfophthalein and rifampin from the blood into the hepatocytes. Polymorphisms in the gene encoding this protein are associated with impaired transporter function.
SLCO1B3	This gene encodes a liver-specific member of the organic anion transporter family. The encoded protein is a transmembrane receptor that mediates the sodium-independent uptake of endogenous and xenobiotic compounds and plays a critical role in bile acid and bilirubin transport. Mutations in this gene are a cause of Rotor type hyperbilirubinemia. Alternative splicing of this gene and the use of alternative promoters results in transcript variants encoding different isoforms that differ in their tissue specificity.
SLCO1C1	This gene encodes a member of the organic anion transporter family. The encoded protein is a transmembrane receptor that mediates the sodium-independent uptake of thyroid hormones in brain tissues. This protein has particularly high affinity for the thyroid hormones thyroxine, tri-iodothyronine and reverse tri-iodothyronine. Polymorphisms in the gene encoding this protein may be associated with fatigue and depression in patients suffering from hyperthyroidism. Alternative splicing results in multiple transcript variants.
SLCO2A1	This gene encodes a prostaglandin transporter that is a member of the 12-membrane-spanning superfamily of transporters. The encoded protein may be involved in mediating the uptake and clearance of prostaglandins in numerous tissues.
SLCO2B1	This locus encodes a member of the organic anion-transporting polypeptide family of membrane proteins. The protein encoded by this locus may function in regulation of placental uptake of sulfated steroids. Alternatively spliced transcript variants have been described.
SLCO3A1	Mediates the Na(+)-independent transport of organic anions such as estrone-3-sulfate .
SLCO4A1	Mediates the Na(+)-independent transport of organic anions such as the thyroid hormones T3 (triiodo-L-thyronine), T4 (thyroxine) and rT3, and of estrone-3-sulfate and taurocholate.
SLCO4C1	SLCO4C1 belongs to the organic anion transporter (OATP) family. OATPs are involved in the membrane transport of bile acids, conjugated steroids, thyroid hormone, eicosanoids, peptides, and numerous drugs in many tissues (Mikkaichi et al., 2004
SLK	Mediates apoptosis and actin stress fiber dissolution.
SMAD2	The protein encoded by this gene belongs to the SMAD, a family of proteins similar to the gene products of the Drosophila gene 'mothers against decapentaplegic' (Mad) and the C. elegans gene Sma. SMAD proteins are signal transducers and transcriptional modulators that mediate multiple signaling pathways. This protein mediates the signal of the transforming growth factor (TGF)-beta, and thus regulates multiple cellular processes, such as cell proliferation, apoptosis, and differentiation. This protein is recruited to the TGF-beta receptors through its interaction with the SMAD anchor for receptor activation (SARA) protein. In response to TGF-beta signal, this protein is phosphorylated by the TGF-beta receptors. The phosphorylation induces the dissociation of this protein with SARA and the association with the family member SMAD4. The association with SMAD4 is important for the translocation of this protein into the nucleus, where it binds to target promoters and forms a transcription repressor complex with other cofactors. This protein can also be phosphorylated by activin type 1 receptor kinase, and mediates the signal from the activin. Alternatively spliced transcript variants have been observed for this gene.
SMAD3	The protein encoded by this gene belongs to the SMAD, a family of proteins similar to the gene products of the Drosophila gene 'mothers against decapentaplegic' (Mad) and the C. elegans gene Sma. SMAD proteins are signal transducers and transcriptional modulators that mediate multiple signaling pathways. This protein functions as a transcriptional modulator activated by transforming growth factor-beta and is thought to play a role in the regulation of carcinogenesis.
SMARCA2	The protein encoded by this gene is a member of the SWI/SNF family of proteins and is highly similar to the brahma protein of Drosophila. Members of this family have helicase and ATPase activities and are thought to regulate transcription of certain genes by altering the chromatin structure around those genes. The encoded protein is part of the large ATP-dependent chromatin remodeling complex SNF/SWI, which is required for transcriptional activation of genes normally repressed by chromatin. Alternatively spliced transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been found for this gene, which contains a trinucleotide repeat (CAG) length polymorphism.
SMARCA4	The protein encoded by this gene is a member of the SWI/SNF family of proteins and is similar to the brahma protein of Drosophila. Members of this family have helicase and ATPase activities and are thought to regulate transcription of certain genes by altering the chromatin structure around those genes. The encoded protein is part of the large ATP-dependent chromatin remodeling complex SNF/SWI, which is required for transcriptional activation of genes normally repressed by chromatin. In addition, this protein can bind BRCA1, as well as regulate the expression of the tumorigenic protein CD44. Mutations in this gene cause rhabdoid tumor predisposition syndrome type 2. Multiple transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been found for this gene.
SMG1	This gene encodes a protein involved in nonsense-mediated mRNA decay (NMD) as part of the mRNA surveillance complex. The protein has kinase activity and is thought to function in NMD by phosphorylating the regulator of nonsense transcripts 1 protein. Alternatively spliced transcript variants have been described, but their full-length nature has yet to be determined.
SMN1	This gene is part of a 500 kb inverted duplication on chromosome 5q13. This duplicated region contains at least four genes and repetitive elements which make it prone to rearrangements and deletions. The repetitiveness and complexity of the sequence have also caused difficulty in determining the organization of this genomic region. The telomeric and centromeric copies of this gene are nearly identical and encode the same protein. However, mutations in this gene, the telomeric copy, are associated with spinal muscular atrophy; mutations in the centromeric copy do not lead to disease. The centromeric copy may be a modifier of disease caused by mutation in the telomeric copy. The critical sequence difference between the two genes is a single nucleotide in exon 7, which is thought to be an exon splice enhancer. Note that the nine exons of both the telomeric and centromeric copies are designated historically as exon 1, 2a, 2b, and 3-8. It is thought that gene conversion events may involve the two genes, leading to varying copy numbers of each gene. The protein encoded by this gene localizes to both the cytoplasm and the nucleus. Within the nucleus, the protein localizes to subnuclear bodies called gems which are found near coiled bodies containing high concentrations of small ribonucleoproteins (snRNPs). This protein forms heteromeric complexes with proteins such as SIP1 and GEMIN4, and also interacts with several proteins known to be involved in the biogenesis of snRNPs, such as hnRNP U protein and the small nucleolar RNA binding protein. Multiple transcript variants encoding distinct isoforms have been described.
SMO	The protein encoded by this gene is a G protein-coupled receptor that interacts with the patched protein, a receptor for hedgehog proteins. The encoded protein tranduces signals to other proteins after activation by a hedgehog protein/patched protein complex.
SMOX	Polyamines are ubiquitous polycationic alkylamines which include spermine, spermidine, putrescine, and agmatine. These molecules participate in a broad range of cellular functions which include cell cycle modulation, scavenging reactive oxygen species, and the control of gene expression. These molecules also play important roles in neurotransmission through their regulation of cell-surface receptor activity, involvement in intracellular signalling pathways, and their putative roles as neurotransmitters. This gene encodes an FAD-containing enzyme that catalyzes the oxidation of spermine to spermadine and secondarily produces hydrogen peroxide. Multiple transcript variants encoding different isoenzymes have been identified for this gene, some of which have failed to demonstrate significant oxidase activity on natural polyamine substrates. The characterized isoenzymes have distinctive biochemical characteristics and substrate specificities, suggesting the existence of additional levels of complexity in polyamine catabolism.
SMPD1	The protein encoded by this gene is a lysosomal acid sphingomyelinase that converts sphingomyelin to ceramide. The encoded protein also has phospholipase C activity. Defects in this gene are a cause of Niemann-Pick disease type A (NPA) and Niemann-Pick disease type B (NPB). Multiple transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been identified.
SMPD2	This gene encodes a protein which was initially identified as a sphingomyelinase based on sequence similarity between bacterial sphingomyelinases and a yeast protein. Subsequent studies showed that its biological function is less likely to be as a sphingomyelinase and instead as a lysophospholipase.
SMS	This gene encodes a protein belonging to the spermidine/spermin synthase family and catalyzes the production of spermine from spermidine. Pseudogenes of this gene are located on chromosomes 1, 5, 6 and X. Mutations in this gene cause an X-linked intellectual disability called Snyder-Robinson Syndrome (SRS). Multiple transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been found for this gene.
SMURF1	This gene encodes a ubiquitin ligase that is specific for receptor-regulated SMAD proteins in the bone morphogenetic protein (BMP) pathway. This protein plays a key roll in the regulation of cell motility, cell signalling, and cell polarity. Alternative splicing results in multiple transcript variants encoding different isoforms.
SMYD2	SET domain-containing proteins, such as SMYD2, catalyze lysine methylation (Brown et al., 2006
SMYD3	This gene encodes a histone methyltransferase which functions in RNA polymerase II complexes by an interaction with a specific RNA helicase. Multiple transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been found for this gene.
SNAP25	Synaptic vesicle membrane docking and fusion is mediated by SNAREs (soluble N-ethylmaleimide-sensitive factor attachment protein receptors) located on the vesicle membrane (v-SNAREs) and the target membrane (t-SNAREs). The assembled v-SNARE/t-SNARE complex consists of a bundle of four helices, one of which is supplied by v-SNARE and the other three by t-SNARE. For t-SNAREs on the plasma membrane, the protein syntaxin supplies one helix and the protein encoded by this gene contributes the other two. Therefore, this gene product is a presynaptic plasma membrane protein involved in the regulation of neurotransmitter release. Two alternative transcript variants encoding different protein isoforms have been described for this gene.
SNCA	Alpha-synuclein is a member of the synuclein family, which also includes beta- and gamma-synuclein. Synucleins are abundantly expressed in the brain and alpha- and beta-synuclein inhibit phospholipase D2 selectively. SNCA may serve to integrate presynaptic signaling and membrane trafficking. Defects in SNCA have been implicated in the pathogenesis of Parkinson disease. SNCA peptides are a major component of amyloid plaques in the brains of patients with Alzheimer's disease. Alternatively spliced transcripts encoding different isoforms have been identified for this gene.
SNCAIP	This gene encodes a protein containing several protein-protein interaction domains, including ankyrin-like repeats, a coiled-coil domain, and an ATP/GTP-binding motif. The encoded protein interacts with alpha-synuclein in neuronal tissue and may play a role in the formation of cytoplasmic inclusions and neurodegeneration. A mutation in this gene has been associated with Parkinson's disease. Alternative splicing results in multiple transcript variants.
SND1	This gene encodes a transcriptional co-activator that interacts with the acidic domain of Epstein-Barr virus nuclear antigen 2 (EBNA 2), a transcriptional activator that is required for B-lymphocyte transformation. Other transcription factors that interact with this protein are signal transducers and activators of transcription, STATs. This protein is also thought to be essential for normal cell growth. A similar protein in mammals and other organisms is a component of the RNA-induced silencing complex (RISC).
SNRK	SNRK is a member of the sucrose nonfermenting (SNF)-related kinase family of serine/threonine kinases (Kertesz et al., 2002
SNUPN	The nuclear import of the spliceosomal snRNPs U1, U2, U4 and U5, is dependent on the presence of a complex nuclear localization signal. The latter is composed of the 5'-2,2,7-terminal trimethylguanosine (m3G) cap structure of the U snRNA and the Sm core domain. The protein encoded by this gene interacts specifically with m3G-cap and functions as an snRNP-specific nuclear import receptor. Alternatively spliced transcript variants encoding the same protein have been identified for this gene.
SOAT1	The protein encoded by this gene belongs to the acyltransferase family. It is located in the endoplasmic reticulum, and catalyzes the formation of fatty acid-cholesterol esters. This gene has been implicated in the formation of beta-amyloid and atherosclerotic plaques by controlling the equilibrium between free cholesterol and cytoplasmic cholesteryl esters. Alternatively spliced transcript variants have been found for this gene.
SOAT2	Summary:This gene is a member of a small family of acyl coenzyme A:cholesterol acyltransferases. The gene encodes a membrane-bound enzyme localized in the endoplasmic reticulum that produces intracellular cholesterol esters from long-chain fatty acyl CoA and cholesterol. The cholesterol esters are then stored as cytoplasmic lipid droplets inside the cell. The enzyme is implicated in cholesterol absorption in the intestine and in the assembly and secretion of apolipoprotein B-containing lipoproteins such as very low density lipoprotein (VLDL). Several alternatively spliced transcript variants of this gene have been described, but their full-length nature is not known.
SOD1	The protein encoded by this gene binds copper and zinc ions and is one of two isozymes responsible for destroying free superoxide radicals in the body. The encoded isozyme is a soluble cytoplasmic protein, acting as a homodimer to convert naturally-occuring but harmful superoxide radicals to molecular oxygen and hydrogen peroxide. The other isozyme is a mitochondrial protein. Mutations in this gene have been implicated as causes of familial amyotrophic lateral sclerosis. Rare transcript variants have been reported for this gene.
SOD3	This gene encodes a member of the superoxide dismutase (SOD) protein family. SODs are antioxidant enzymes that catalyze the conversion of superoxide radicals into hydrogen peroxide and oxygen, which may protect the brain, lungs, and other tissues from oxidative stress. Proteolytic processing of the encoded protein results in the formation of two distinct homotetramers that differ in their ability to interact with the extracellular matrix (ECM). Homotetramers consisting of the intact protein, or type C subunit, exhibit high affinity for heparin and are anchored to the ECM. Homotetramers consisting of a proteolytically cleaved form of the protein, or type A subunit, exhibit low affinity for heparin and do not interact with the ECM. A mutation in this gene may be associated with increased heart disease risk.
SORD	Sorbitol dehydrogenase (SORD; EC 1.1.1.14) catalyzes the interconversion of polyols and their corresponding ketoses, and together with aldose reductase (ALDR1; MIM 103880), makes up the sorbitol pathway that is believed to play an important role in the development of diabetic complications (summarized by Carr and Markham, 1995
SORT1	This gene encodes a member of the VPS10-related sortilin family of proteins. The encoded preproprotein is proteolytically processed by furin to generate the mature receptor. This receptor plays a role in the trafficking of different proteins to either the cell surface, or subcellular compartments such as lysosomes and endosomes. Expression levels of this gene may influence the risk of myocardial infarction in human patients. Alternative splicing results in multiple transcript variants.
SOS1	This gene encodes a protein that is a guanine nucleotide exchange factor for RAS proteins, membrane proteins that bind guanine nucleotides and participate in signal transduction pathways. GTP binding activates and GTP hydrolysis inactivates RAS proteins. The product of this gene may regulate RAS proteins by facilitating the exchange of GTP for GDP. Mutations in this gene are associated with gingival fibromatosis 1 and Noonan syndrome type 4.
SOST	Sclerostin is a secreted glycoprotein with a C-terminal cysteine knot-like (CTCK) domain and sequence similarity to the DAN (differential screening-selected gene aberrative in neuroblastoma) family of bone morphogenetic protein (BMP) antagonists. Loss-of-function mutations in this gene are associated with an autosomal-recessive disorder, sclerosteosis, which causes progressive bone overgrowth. A deletion downstream of this gene, which causes reduced sclerostin expression, is associated with a milder form of the disorder called van Buchem disease.
SP1	The protein encoded by this gene is a zinc finger transcription factor that binds to GC-rich motifs of many promoters. The encoded protein is involved in many cellular processes, including cell differentiation, cell growth, apoptosis, immune responses, response to DNA damage, and chromatin remodeling. Post-translational modifications such as phosphorylation, acetylation, glycosylation, and proteolytic processing significantly affect the activity of this protein, which can be an activator or a repressor. Three transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been found for this gene.
SP140	This gene encodes a member of the SP100 family of proteins, which are share common domains including an N-terminal homogeneously staining region domain followed by a SP100/autoimmune regulator/NucP41/P75/deformed epidermal autoregulatory factor domain, a plant homeobox zinc finger, and a bromodomain. The encoded protein is interferon-inducible and is expressed at high levels in the nuclei of leukocytes. Variants of this gene have been associated with multiple sclerosis, Crohn's disease, and chronic lymphocytic leukemia. Alternative splicing results in multiple variants.
SPATA5	This gene encodes a member of the ATPase associated with diverse activities family, whose members are defined by a highly conserved ATPase domain. Members of this family participate in diverse cellular processes that include membrane fusion, DNA replication, microtubule severing, and protein degradation. The protein encoded by this gene has a putative mitochondrial targeting sequence and has been proposed to function in maintenance of mitochondrial function and integrity during mouse spermatogenesis. Allelic variants in this gene have been associated with epilepsy, hearing loss, and cognitive disability syndrome. Alternative splicing results in multiple transcript variants.
SPHK1	The protein encoded by this gene catalyzes the phosphorylation of sphingosine to form sphingosine-1-phosphate (S1P), a lipid mediator with both intra- and extracellular functions. Intracellularly, S1P regulates proliferation and survival, and extracellularly, it is a ligand for cell surface G protein-coupled receptors. This protein, and its product S1P, play a key role in TNF-alpha signaling and the NF-kappa-B activation pathway important in inflammatory, antiapoptotic, and immune processes. Phosphorylation of this protein alters its catalytic activity and promotes its translocation to the plasma membrane. Alternative splicing results in multiple transcript variants encoding different isoforms.
SPHK2	This gene encodes one of two sphingosine kinase isozymes that catalyze the phosphorylation of sphingosine into sphingosine 1-phosphate. Sphingosine 1-phosphate mediates many cellular processes including migration, proliferation and apoptosis, and also plays a role in several types of cancer by promoting angiogenesis and tumorigenesis. The encoded protein may play a role in breast cancer proliferation and chemoresistance. Alternatively spliced transcript variants encoding multiple isoforms have been observed for this gene.
SPP1	The protein encoded by this gene is involved in the attachment of osteoclasts to the mineralized bone matrix. The encoded protein is secreted and binds hydroxyapatite with high affinity. The osteoclast vitronectin receptor is found in the cell membrane and may be involved in the binding to this protein. This protein is also a cytokine that upregulates expression of interferon-gamma and interleukin-12. Several transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been found for this gene.
SPR	This gene encodes an aldo-keto reductase that catalyzes the NADPH-dependent reduction of pteridine derivatives and is important in the biosynthesis of tetrahydrobiopterin (BH4). Mutations in this gene result in DOPA-responsive dystonia due to sepiaterin reductase deficiency. A pseudogene has been identified on chromosome 1.
SPSB2	This gene encodes a member of a subfamily of proteins containing a central SPRY (repeats in splA and RyR) domain and a C-terminal suppressor of cytokine signaling (SOCS) box. This protein plays a role in cell signaling. This gene is present in a gene-rich cluster on chromosome 12p13 in the vicinity of the CD4 antigen and triosephosphate isomerase genes. Alternative splicing results in multiple transcript variants.
SPTLC1	This gene encodes a member of the class-II pyridoxal-phosphate-dependent aminotransferase family. The encoded protein is the long chain base subunit 1 of serine palmitoyltransferase. Serine palmitoyltransferase converts L-serine and palmitoyl-CoA to 3-oxosphinganine with pyridoxal 5'-phosphate and is the key enzyme in sphingolipid biosynthesis. Mutations in this gene were identified in patients with hereditary sensory neuropathy type 1. Alternatively spliced variants encoding different isoforms have been identified. Pseudogenes of this gene have been defined on chromosomes 1, 6, 10, and 13.
SPTLC2	This gene encodes a long chain base subunit of serine palmitoyltransferase. Serine palmitoyltransferase, which consists of two different subunits, is the key enzyme in sphingolipid biosynthesis. It catalyzes the pyridoxal-5-prime-phosphate-dependent condensation of L-serine and palmitoyl-CoA to 3-oxosphinganine. Mutations in this gene were identified in patients with hereditary sensory neuropathy type I.
SQLE	Squalene epoxidase catalyzes the first oxygenation step in sterol biosynthesis and is thought to be one of the rate-limiting enzymes in this pathway.
SRC	This gene is highly similar to the v-src gene of Rous sarcoma virus. This proto-oncogene may play a role in the regulation of embryonic development and cell growth. The protein encoded by this gene is a tyrosine-protein kinase whose activity can be inhibited by phosphorylation by c-SRC kinase. Mutations in this gene could be involved in the malignant progression of colon cancer. Two transcript variants encoding the same protein have been found for this gene.
SRCIN1	Acts as a negative regulator of SRC by activating CSK which inhibits SRC activity and downstream signaling, leading to impaired cell spreading and migration. Regulates dendritic spine morphology. Involved in calcium-dependent exocytosis. May play a role in neurotransmitter release or synapse maintenance.
SRD5A1	Steroid 5-alpha-reductase (EC 1.3.99.5) catalyzes the conversion of testosterone into the more potent androgen, dihydrotestosterone (DHT). Also see SRD5A2 (MIM 607306).
SREBF2	This gene encodes a member of the a ubiquitously expressed transcription factor that controls cholesterol homeostasis by regulating transcription of sterol-regulated genes. The encoded protein contains a basic helix-loop-helix-leucine zipper (bHLH-Zip) domain and binds the sterol regulatory element 1 motif. Alternate splicing results in multiple transcript variants.
SRM	The polyamines putrescine, spermine, and spermidine are ubiquitous polycationic mediators of cell growth and differentiation. Spermidine synthase is one of four enzymes in the polyamine-biosynthetic pathway and carries out the final step of spermidine biosynthesis. This enzyme catalyzes the conversion of putrescine to spermidine using decarboxylated S-adenosylmethionine as the cofactor.
SRMS	Non-receptor tyrosine-protein kinase which phosphorylates DOK1 on tyrosine residues .
SRPK1	This gene encodes a serine/arginine protein kinase specific for the SR (serine/arginine-rich domain) family of splicing factors. The protein localizes to the nucleus and the cytoplasm. It is thought to play a role in regulation of both constitutive and alternative splicing by regulating intracellular localization of splicing factors. Alternative splicing of this gene results in multiple transcript variants. Additional alternatively spliced transcript variants have been described for this gene, but their full length nature have not been determined.
SRPK2	Serine/arginine-rich protein-specific kinase which specifically phosphorylates its substrates at serine residues located in regions rich in arginine/serine dipeptides, known as RS domains and is involved in the phosphorylation of SR splicing factors and the regulation of splicing. Promotes neuronal apoptosis by up-regulating cyclin-D1 (CCND1) expression. This is done by the phosphorylation of SRSF2, leading to the suppression of p53/TP53 phosphorylation thereby relieving the repressive effect of p53/TP53 on cyclin-D1 (CCND1) expression. Phosphorylates ACIN1, and redistributes it from the nuclear speckles to the nucleoplasm, resulting in cyclin A1 but not cyclin A2 up-regulation. Plays an essential role in spliceosomal B complex formation via the phosphorylation of DDX23/PRP28. Can mediate hepatitis B virus (HBV) core protein phosphorylation. Plays a negative role in the regulation of HBV replication through a mechanism not involving the phosphorylation of the core protein but by reducing the packaging efficiency of the pregenomic RNA (pgRNA) without affecting the formation of the viral core particles.
SRPK3	This gene encodes a protein kinase similar to a protein kinase which is specific for the SR (serine/arginine-rich domain) family of splicing factors. A highly similar protein has been shown to play a role in muscle development in mice. Multiple transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been found for this gene.
SRR	Catalyzes the synthesis of D-serine from L-serine. D-serine is a key coagonist with glutamate at NMDA receptors. Has dehydratase activity towards both L-serine and D-serine.
SSB	The protein encoded by this gene is involved in diverse aspects of RNA metabolism, including binding and protecting poly(U) termini of nascent RNA polymerase III transcripts from exonuclease digestion, processing 5' and 3' ends of pre-tRNA precursors, acting as an RNA chaperone, and binding viral RNAs associated with hepatitis C virus. Autoantibodies reacting with this protein are found in the sera of patients with Sjogren syndrome and systemic lupus erythematosus. Alternative promoter usage results in two different transcript variants which encode the same protein.
SSH2	This gene encodes a protein tyrosine phosphatase that plays a key role in the regulation of actin filaments. The encoded protein dephosphorylates and activates cofilin, which promotes actin filament depolymerization. Alternative splicing results in multiple transcript variants.
SST	The hormone somatostatin has active 14 aa and 28 aa forms that are produced by alternate cleavage of the single preproprotein encoded by this gene. Somatostatin is expressed throughout the body and inhibits the release of numerous secondary hormones by binding to high-affinity G-protein-coupled somatostatin receptors. This hormone is an important regulator of the endocrine system through its interactions with pituitary growth hormone, thyroid stimulating hormone, and most hormones of the gastrointestinal tract. Somatostatin also affects rates of neurotransmission in the central nervous system and proliferation of both normal and tumorigenic cells.
SSTR1	Somatostatins are peptide hormones that regulate diverse cellular functions such as neurotransmission, cell proliferation, and endocrine signaling as well as inhibiting the release of many hormones and other secretory proteins. Somatostatin has two active forms of 14 and 28 amino acids. The biological effects of somatostatins are mediated by a family of G-protein coupled somatostatin receptors that are expressed in a tissue-specific manner. The protein encoded by this gene is a member of the superfamily of somatostatin receptors having seven transmembrane segments. Somatostatin receptors form homodimers and heterodimers with other members of the superfamily as well as with other G-protein coupled receptors and receptor tyrosine kinases. This somatostatin receptor has greater affinity for somatostatin-14 than -28.
SSTR2	Somatostatin acts at many sites to inhibit the release of many hormones and other secretory proteins. The biologic effects of somatostatin are probably mediated by a family of G protein-coupled receptors that are expressed in a tissue-specific manner. SSTR2 is a member of the superfamily of receptors having seven transmembrane segments and is expressed in highest levels in cerebrum and kidney.
SSTR3	This gene encodes a member of the somatostatin receptor protein family. Somatostatins are peptide hormones that regulate diverse cellular functions such as neurotransmission, cell proliferation, and endocrine signaling as well as inhibiting the release of many hormones and other secretory proteins. Somatostatin has two active forms of 14 and 28 amino acids. The biological effects of somatostatins are mediated by a family of G-protein coupled somatostatin receptors that are expressed in a tissue-specific manner. Somatostatin receptors form homodimers and heterodimers with other members of the superfamily as well as with other G-protein coupled receptors and receptor tyrosine kinases. This protein is functionally coupled to adenylyl cyclase. Alternate splicing results in multiple transcript variants.
SSTR4	Somatostatin acts at many sites to inhibit the release of many hormones and other secretory proteins.  The biologic effects of somatostatin are probably mediated by a family of G protein-coupled receptors that are expressed in a tissue-specific manner.  SSTR4 is a member of the superfamily of receptors having seven transmembrane segments and is expressed in highest levels in fetal and adult brain and lung.
SSTR5	Somatostatin and its related peptide cortistatin exert multiple biological actions on normal and tumoral tissue targets by interacting with somatostatin receptors (SSTRs). The protein encoded by this gene is one of the SSTRs, which is a multi-pass membrane protein and belongs to the G-protein coupled receptor 1 family. The activity of this receptor is mediated by G proteins which inhibit adenylyl cyclase, and different regions of this receptor molecule are required for the activation of different signaling pathways. A mutation in this gene results in somatostatin analog resistance. Alternatively spliced transcript variants have been identified in this gene.
SSU72	Protein phosphatase that catalyzes the dephosphorylation of the C-terminal domain of RNA polymerase II. Plays a role in RNA processing and termination. Plays a role in pre-mRNA polyadenylation via its interaction with SYMPK.
ST14	The protein encoded by this gene is an epithelial-derived, integral membrane serine protease. This protease forms a complex with the Kunitz-type serine protease inhibitor, HAI-1, and is found to be activated by sphingosine 1-phosphate. This protease has been shown to cleave and activate hepatocyte growth factor/scattering factor, and urokinase plasminogen activator, which suggest the function of this protease as an epithelial membrane activator for other proteases and latent growth factors. The expression of this protease has been associated with breast, colon, prostate, and ovarian tumors, which implicates its role in cancer invasion, and metastasis.
ST3GAL1	The protein encoded by this gene is a type II membrane protein that catalyzes the transfer of sialic acid from CMP-sialic acid to galactose-containing substrates. The encoded protein is normally found in the Golgi but can be proteolytically processed to a soluble form. Correct glycosylation of the encoded protein may be critical to its sialyltransferase activity. This protein, which is a member of glycosyltransferase family 29, can use the same acceptor substrates as does sialyltransferase 4B. Two transcript variants encoding the same protein have been found for this gene. Other transcript variants may exist, but have not been fully characterized yet.
ST3GAL3	The protein encoded by this gene is a type II membrane protein that catalyzes the transfer of sialic acid from CMP-sialic acid to galactose-containing substrates. The encoded protein is normally found in the Golgi apparatus but can be proteolytically processed to a soluble form. This protein is a member of glycosyltransferase family 29. Mutations in this gene have been associated with a form of autosomal recessive nonsymdromic cognitive disability as well as infantile epileptic encephalopathy. Multiple transcript variants encoding several different isoforms have been found for this gene.
ST6GAL1	This gene encodes a member of glycosyltransferase family 29. The encoded protein is a type II membrane protein that catalyzes the transfer of sialic acid from CMP-sialic acid to galactose-containing substrates. The protein, which is normally found in the Golgi but can be proteolytically processed to a soluble form, is involved in the generation of the cell-surface carbohydrate determinants and differentiation antigens HB-6, CD75, and CD76. This gene has been incorrectly referred to as CD75. Alternative splicing results in multiple transcript variants.
STARD7	May play a protective role in mucosal tissues by preventing exaggerated allergic responses.
STAT1	The protein encoded by this gene is a member of the STAT protein family. In response to cytokines and growth factors, STAT family members are phosphorylated by the receptor associated kinases, and then form homo- or heterodimers that translocate to the cell nucleus where they act as transcription activators. This protein can be activated by various ligands including interferon-alpha, interferon-gamma, EGF, PDGF and IL6. This protein mediates the expression of a variety of genes, which is thought to be important for cell viability in response to different cell stimuli and pathogens. Two alternatively spliced transcript variants encoding distinct isoforms have been described.
STAT3	The protein encoded by this gene is a member of the STAT protein family. In response to cytokines and growth factors, STAT family members are phosphorylated by the receptor associated kinases, and then form homo- or heterodimers that translocate to the cell nucleus where they act as transcription activators. This protein is activated through phosphorylation in response to various cytokines and growth factors including IFNs, EGF, IL5, IL6, HGF, LIF and BMP2. This protein mediates the expression of a variety of genes in response to cell stimuli, and thus plays a key role in many cellular processes such as cell growth and apoptosis. The small GTPase Rac1 has been shown to bind and regulate the activity of this protein. PIAS3 protein is a specific inhibitor of this protein. Mutations in this gene are associated with infantile-onset multisystem autoimmune disease and hyper-immunoglobulin E syndrome. Alternative splicing results in multiple transcript variants encoding distinct isoforms.
STAT5A	The protein encoded by this gene is a member of the STAT family of transcription factors. In response to cytokines and growth factors, STAT family members are phosphorylated by the receptor associated kinases, and then form homo- or heterodimers that translocate to the cell nucleus where they act as transcription activators. This protein is activated by, and mediates the responses of many cell ligands, such as IL2, IL3, IL7 GM-CSF, erythropoietin, thrombopoietin, and different growth hormones. Activation of this protein in myeloma and lymphoma associated with a TEL/JAK2 gene fusion is independent of cell stimulus and has been shown to be essential for tumorigenesis. The mouse counterpart of this gene is found to induce the expression of BCL2L1/BCL-X(L), which suggests the antiapoptotic function of this gene in cells. Alternatively spliced transcript variants have been found for this gene.
STAT5B	The protein encoded by this gene is a member of the STAT family of transcription factors. In response to cytokines and growth factors, STAT family members are phosphorylated by the receptor associated kinases, and then form homo- or heterodimers that translocate to the cell nucleus where they act as transcription activators. This protein mediates the signal transduction triggered by various cell ligands, such as IL2, IL4, CSF1, and different growth hormones. It has been shown to be involved in diverse biological processes, such as TCR signaling, apoptosis, adult mammary gland development, and sexual dimorphism of liver gene expression. This gene was found to fuse to retinoic acid receptor-alpha (RARA) gene in a small subset of acute promyelocytic leukemias (APLL). The dysregulation of the signaling pathways mediated by this protein may be the cause of the APLL.
STAT6	The protein encoded by this gene is a member of the STAT family of transcription factors. In response to cytokines and growth factors, STAT family members are phosphorylated by the receptor associated kinases, and then form homo- or heterodimers that translocate to the cell nucleus where they act as transcription activators. This protein plays a central role in exerting IL4 mediated biological responses. It is found to induce the expression of BCL2L1/BCL-X(L), which is responsible for the anti-apoptotic activity of IL4. Knockout studies in mice suggested the roles of this gene in differentiation of T helper 2 (Th2) cells, expression of cell surface markers, and class switch of immunoglobulins. Alternative splicing results in multiple transcript variants.
STEAP1	This gene is predominantly expressed in prostate tissue, and is found to be upregulated in multiple cancer cell lines. The gene product is predicted to be a six-transmembrane protein, and was shown to be a cell surface antigen significantly expressed at cell-cell junctions.
STIM1	This gene encodes a type 1 transmembrane protein that mediates Ca2+ influx after depletion of intracellular Ca2+ stores by gating of store-operated Ca2+ influx channels (SOCs). It is one of several genes located in the imprinted gene domain of 11p15.5, an important tumor-suppressor gene region. Alterations in this region have been associated with the Beckwith-Wiedemann syndrome, Wilms tumor, rhabdomyosarcoma, adrenocrotical carcinoma, and lung, ovarian, and breast cancer. This gene may play a role in malignancies and disease that involve this region, as well as early hematopoiesis, by mediating attachment to stromal cells. Mutations in this gene are associated with fatal classic Kaposi sarcoma, immunodeficiency due to defects in store-operated calcium entry (SOCE) in fibroblasts, ectodermal dysplasia and tubular aggregate myopathy. This gene is oriented in a head-to-tail configuration with the ribonucleotide reductase 1 gene (RRM1), with the 3' end of this gene situated 1.6 kb from the 5' end of the RRM1 gene. Alternative splicing of this gene results in multiple transcript variants.
STK10	This gene encodes a member of the Ste20 family of serine/threonine protein kinases, and is similar to several known polo-like kinase kinases. The protein can associate with and phosphorylate polo-like kinase 1, and overexpression of a kinase-dead version of the protein interferes with normal cell cycle progression. The kinase can also negatively regulate interleukin 2 expression in T-cells via the mitogen activated protein kinase kinase 1 pathway.
STK11	This gene, which encodes a member of the serine/threonine kinase family, regulates cell polarity and functions as a tumor suppressor. Mutations in this gene have been associated with Peutz-Jeghers syndrome, an autosomal dominant disorder characterized by the growth of polyps in the gastrointestinal tract, pigmented macules on the skin and mouth, and other neoplasms. Alternate transcriptional splice variants of this gene have been observed but have not been thoroughly characterized.
STK16	Membrane-associated protein kinase that phosphorylates on serine and threonine residues. In vitro substrates include DRG1, ENO1 and EIF4EBP1. Also autophosphorylates. May be involved in secretory vesicle trafficking or intracellular signaling. May have a role in regulating stromal-epithelial interactions that occur during ductal morphogenesis in the mammary gland. May be involved in TGF-beta signaling. Able to autophosphorylate on Tyr residue; it is however unclear whether it has tyrosine-protein kinase toward other proteins.
STK17A	This gene is a member of the DAP kinase-related apoptosis-inducing protein kinase family and encodes an autophosphorylated nuclear protein with a protein kinase domain. The protein has apoptosis-inducing activity.
STK17B	Phosphorylates myosin light chains (By similarity). Acts as a positive regulator of apoptosis.
STK24	This gene encodes a serine/threonine protein kinase that functions upstream of mitogen-activated protein kinase (MAPK) signaling. The encoded protein is cleaved into two chains by caspases; the N-terminal fragment (MST3/N) translocates to the nucleus and promotes programmed cells death. There is a pseudogene for this gene on chromosome X. Alternative splicing results in multiple transcript variants.
STK25	This gene encodes a member of the germinal centre kinase III (GCK III) subfamily of the sterile 20 superfamily of kinases. The encoded enzyme plays a role in serine-threonine liver kinase B1 (LKB1) signaling pathway to regulate neuronal polarization and morphology of the Golgi apparatus. The protein is translocated from the Golgi apparatus to the nucleus in response to chemical anoxia and plays a role in regulation of cell death. A pseudogene associated with this gene is located on chromosome 18. Multiple alternatively spliced transcript variants have been observed for this gene.
STK3	This gene encodes a serine/threonine protein kinase activated by proapoptotic molecules indicating the encoded protein functions as a growth suppressor. Cleavage of the protein product by caspase removes the inhibitory C-terminal portion. The N-terminal portion is transported to the nucleus where it homodimerizes to form the active kinase which promotes the condensation of chromatin during apoptosis. Multiple transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been found for this gene.
STK31	This gene is similar to a mouse gene that encodes a putative protein kinase with a tudor domain, and shows testis-specific expression. Alternative splicing results in multiple transcript variants encoding different isoforms.
STK33	Serine/threonine protein kinase which phosphorylates VIME. May play a specific role in the dynamic behavior of the intermediate filament cytoskeleton by phosphorylation of VIME (By similarity). Not essential for the survival of KRAS-dependent AML cell lines.
STK35	The protein encoded by this gene is a kinase that is predominantly found in the nucleus. However, it can interact with PDLIM1/CLP-36 in the cytoplasm and localize to actin stress fibers. The encoded protein may be a regulator of actin stress fibers in nonmuscle cells.
STK36	This gene encodes a member of the serine/threonine kinase family of enzymes. This family member is similar to a Drosophila protein that plays a key role in the Hedgehog signaling pathway. This human protein is a positive regulator of the GLI zinc-finger transcription factors. Knockout studies of the homologous mouse gene suggest that defects in this human gene may lead to congenital hydrocephalus, possibly due to a functional defect in motile cilia. Because Hedgehog signaling is frequently activated in certain kinds of gastrointestinal cancers, it has been suggested that this gene is a target for the treatment of these cancers. Alternative splicing of this gene results in multiple transcript variants.
STK38	This gene encodes a member of the AGC serine/threonine kinase family of proteins. The kinase activity of this protein is regulated by autophosphorylation and phosphorylation by other upstream kinases. This protein has been shown to function in the cell cycle and apoptosis. This protein has also been found to regulate the protein stability and transcriptional activity of the MYC oncogene. Alternative splicing results in multiple transcript variants.
STK38L	Involved in the regulation of structural processes in differentiating and mature neuronal cells.
STK39	This gene encodes a serine/threonine kinase that is thought to function in the cellular stress response pathway. The kinase is activated in response to hypotonic stress, leading to phosphorylation of several cation-chloride-coupled cotransporters. The catalytically active kinase specifically activates the p38 MAP kinase pathway, and its interaction with p38 decreases upon cellular stress, suggesting that this kinase may serve as an intermediate in the response to cellular stress.
STK4	The protein encoded by this gene is a cytoplasmic kinase that is structurally similar to the yeast Ste20p kinase, which acts upstream of the stress-induced mitogen-activated protein kinase cascade. The encoded protein can phosphorylate myelin basic protein and undergoes autophosphorylation. A caspase-cleaved fragment of the encoded protein has been shown to be capable of phosphorylating histone H2B. The particular phosphorylation catalyzed by this protein has been correlated with apoptosis, and it's possible that this protein induces the chromatin condensation observed in this process.
STMN1	This gene belongs to the stathmin family of genes. It encodes a ubiquitous cytosolic phosphoprotein proposed to function as an intracellular relay integrating regulatory signals of the cellular environment. The encoded protein is involved in the regulation of the microtubule filament system by destabilizing microtubules. It prevents assembly and promotes disassembly of microtubules. Multiple transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been found for this gene.
STRADA	The protein encoded by this gene contains a STE20-like kinase domain, but lacks several residues that are critical for catalytic activity, so it is termed a 'pseudokinase'. The protein forms a heterotrimeric complex with serine/threonine kinase 11 (STK11, also known as LKB1) and the scaffolding protein calcium binding protein 39 (CAB39, also known as MO25). The protein activates STK11 leading to the phosphorylation of both proteins and excluding STK11 from the nucleus. The protein is necessary for STK11-induced G1 cell cycle arrest. A mutation in this gene has been shown to result in polyhydramnios, megalencephaly, and symptomatic epilepsy (PMSE) syndrome. Multiple transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been found for this gene. Additional transcript variants have been described but their full-length nature is not known.
STS	This gene encodes a multi-pass membrane protein that is localized to the endoplasmic reticulum. It belongs to the sulfatase family and hydrolyzes several 3-beta-hydroxysteroid sulfates, which serve as metabolic precursors for estrogens, androgens, and cholesterol. Mutations in this gene are associated with X-linked ichthyosis (XLI). Alternatively spliced transcript variants resulting from the use of different promoters have been described for this gene (PMID:17601726).
SUCNR1	This gene encodes a G-protein-coupled receptor for succinate, an intermediate molecule of the citric acid cycle. It is involved in the promotion of hematopoietic progenitor cell development, and it has a potential role in renovascular hypertension which has known correlations to renal failure, diabetes and atherosclerosis.
SUFU	The Hedgehog signaling pathway plays an important role in early human development. The pathway is a signaling cascade that plays a role in pattern formation and cellular proliferation during development. This gene encodes a negative regulator of the hedgehog signaling pathway. Defects in this gene are a cause of medulloblastoma. Alternative splicing results in multiple transcript variants.
SULT1A1	Sulfotransferase enzymes catalyze the sulfate conjugation of many hormones, neurotransmitters, drugs, and xenobiotic compounds. These cytosolic enzymes are different in their tissue distributions and substrate specificities. The gene structure (number and length of exons) is similar among family members. This gene encodes one of two phenol sulfotransferases with thermostable enzyme activity.  Multiple alternatively spliced variants that encode two isoforms have been identified for this gene.
SULT1A2	Sulfotransferase enzymes catalyze the sulfate conjugation of many hormones, neurotransmitters, drugs, and xenobiotic compounds. These cytosolic enzymes are different in their tissue distributions and substrate specificities. The gene structure (number and length of exons) is similar among family members. This gene encodes one of two phenol sulfotransferases with thermostable enzyme activity. Two alternatively spliced variants that encode the same protein have been described.
SULT1A3	Sulfotransferase enzymes catalyze the sulfate conjugation of many hormones, neurotransmitters, drugs, and xenobiotic compounds. These cytosolic enzymes are different in their tissue distributions and substrate specificities. The gene structure (number and length of exons) is similar among family members. This gene encodes a phenol sulfotransferase with thermolabile enzyme activity. Four sulfotransferase genes are located on the p arm of chromosome 16; this gene and SULT1A4 arose from a segmental duplication. This gene is the most centromeric of the four sulfotransferase genes. Read-through transcription exists between this gene and the upstream SLX1A (SLX1 structure-specific endonuclease subunit homolog A) gene that encodes a protein containing GIY-YIG domains.
SULT1B1	Sulfotransferase enzymes catalyze the sulfate conjugation of many hormones, neurotransmitters, drugs, and xenobiotic compounds. These cytosolic enzymes are different in their tissue distributions and substrate specificities. The gene structure (number and length of exons) is similar among family members. However, the total genomic length of this gene is greater than that of other SULT1 genes.
SULT1C2	Sulfotransferase enzymes catalyze the sulfate conjugation of many hormones, neurotransmitters, drugs, and xenobiotic compounds. These cytosolic enzymes are different in their tissue distributions and substrate specificities. The gene structure (number and length of exons) is similar among family members. This gene encodes a protein that belongs to the SULT1 subfamily, responsible for transferring a sulfo moiety from PAPS to phenol-containing compounds. Two alternatively spliced transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been described for this gene.
SULT1C4	Sulfotransferase enzymes catalyze the sulfate conjugation of many hormones, neurotransmitters, drugs, and xenobiotic compounds. These cytosolic enzymes are different in their tissue distributions and substrate specificities. The gene structure (number and length of exons) is similar among family members. This gene encodes a protein that belongs to the SULT1 subfamily, responsible for transferring a sulfo moiety from PAPS to phenol-containing compounds.
SULT1E1	Sulfotransferase enzymes catalyze the sulfate conjugation of many hormones, neurotransmitters, drugs, and xenobiotic compounds. These cytosolic enzymes are different in their tissue distributions and substrate specificities. The gene structure (number and length of exons) is similar among family members. This gene encodes a protein that transfers a sulfo moiety to and from estrone, which may control levels of estrogen receptors.
SULT2A1	This gene encodes a member of the sulfotransferase family. Sulfotransferases aid in the metabolism of drugs and endogenous compounds by converting these substances into more hydrophilic water-soluble sulfate conjugates that can be easily excreted. This protein catalyzes the sulfation of steroids and bile acids in the liver and adrenal glands, and may have a role in the inherited adrenal androgen excess in women with polycystic ovary syndrome.
SULT2B1	Sulfotransferase enzymes catalyze the sulfate conjugation of many hormones, neurotransmitters, drugs, and xenobiotic compounds. These cytosolic enzymes are different in their tissue distributions and substrate specificities. The gene structure (number and length of exons) is similar among family members. This gene sulfates dehydroepiandrosterone but not 4-nitrophenol, a typical substrate for the phenol and estrogen sulfotransferase subfamilies. Two alternatively spliced variants that encode different isoforms have been described.
SULT4A1	This gene encodes a member of the sulfotransferase family. The encoded protein is a brain-specific sulfotransferase believed to be involved in the metabolism of neurotransmitters. Polymorphisms in this gene may be associated with susceptibility to schizophrenia.
SUMO1	This gene encodes a protein that is a member of the SUMO (small ubiquitin-like modifier) protein family. It functions in a manner similar to ubiquitin in that it is bound to target proteins as part of a post-translational modification system. However, unlike ubiquitin which targets proteins for degradation, this protein is involved in a variety of cellular processes, such as nuclear transport, transcriptional regulation, apoptosis, and protein stability. It is not active until the last four amino acids of the carboxy-terminus have been cleaved off. Several pseudogenes have been reported for this gene. Alternate transcriptional splice variants encoding different isoforms have been characterized.
SUMO2	This gene encodes a protein that is a member of the SUMO (small ubiquitin-like modifier) protein family. It functions in a manner similar to ubiquitin in that it is bound to target proteins as part of a post-translational modification system. However, unlike ubiquitin which targets proteins for degradation, this protein is involved in a variety of cellular processes, such as nuclear transport, transcriptional regulation, apoptosis, and protein stability. It is not active until the last two amino acids of the carboxy-terminus have been cleaved off. Numerous pseudogenes have been reported for this gene. Alternate transcriptional splice variants, encoding different isoforms, have been characterized.
SUMO3	This gene encodes a member of the small ubiquitin-related modifier (SUMO) family of eukaryotic proteins. The encoded protein is covalently conjugated to other proteins via a post-translation modification known as sumoylation. Sumoylation may play a role in a wide variety of cellular processes, including nuclear transport, DNA replication and repair, mitosis, transcriptional regulation, and signal transduction. Alternatively spliced transcript variants encoding distinct proteins have been described.
SUPV3L1	Major helicase player in mitochondrial RNA metabolism. Component of the mitochondrial degradosome (mtEXO) complex, that degrades 3' overhang double-stranded RNA with a 3'-to-5' directionality in an ATP-dependent manner. ATPase and ATP-dependent multisubstrate helicase, able to unwind double-stranded (ds) DNA and RNA, and RNA/DNA heteroduplexes in the 5'-to-3' direction. Plays a role in the RNA surveillance system in mitochondria; regulates the stability of mature mRNAs, the removal of aberrantly formed mRNAs and the rapid degradation of non coding processing intermediates. Also implicated in recombination and chromatin maintenance pathways. May protect cells from apoptosis. Associates with mitochondrial DNA.
SUV39H1	This gene encodes an evolutionarily-conserved protein containing an N-terminal chromodomain and a C-terminal SET domain. The encoded protein is a histone methyltransferase that trimethylates lysine 9 of histone H3, which results in transcriptional gene silencing. Loss of function of this gene disrupts heterochromatin formation and may cause chromosome instability. Alternative splicing results in multiple transcript variants.
SUV39H2	Histone methyltransferase that specifically trimethylates 'Lys-9' of histone H3 using monomethylated H3 'Lys-9' as substrate. H3 'Lys-9' trimethylation represents a specific tag for epigenetic transcriptional repression by recruiting HP1 (CBX1, CBX3 and/or CBX5) proteins to methylated histones. Mainly functions in heterochromatin regions, thereby playing a central role in the establishment of constitutive heterochromatin at pericentric and telomere regions. H3 'Lys-9' trimethylation is also required to direct DNA methylation at pericentric repeats. SUV39H1 is targeted to histone H3 via its interaction with RB1 and is involved in many processes, such as cell cycle regulation, transcriptional repression and regulation of telomere length. May participate in regulation of higher-order chromatin organization during spermatogenesis. Recruited by the large PER complex to the E-box elements of the circadian target genes such as PER2 itself or PER1, contributes to the conversion of local chromatin to a heterochromatin-like repressive state through H3 'Lys-9' trimethylation.
SV2A	The protein encoded by this gene is one of three related synaptic vesicle proteins. The encoded protein may interact with synaptotagmin to enhance low frequency neurotransmission in quiescent neurons.
SYK	This gene encodes a member of the family of non-receptor type Tyr protein kinases. This protein is widely expressed in hematopoietic cells and is involved in coupling activated immunoreceptors to downstream signaling events that mediate diverse cellular responses, including proliferation, differentiation, and phagocytosis. It is thought to be a modulator of epithelial cell growth and a potential tumour suppressor in human breast carcinomas. Alternatively spliced transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been found for this gene.
TAAR1	The protein encoded by this gene is a G-protein coupled receptor activated by trace amines. The encoded protein responds little or not at all to dopamine, serotonin, epinephrine, or histamine, but responds well to beta-phenylethylamine, p-tyramine, octopamine, and tryptamine. While primarily functioning in neurologic systems, there is evidence that this gene is involved in blood cell and immunologic functions as well. This gene is thought to be intronless.
TAAR5	Olfactory receptor specific for trimethylamine, a trace amine. Also activated at lower level by dimethylethylamine. Trimethylamine is a bacterial metabolite found in some animal odors, and to humans it is a repulsive odor associated with bad breath and spoiled food. This receptor is probably mediated by the G(s)-class of G-proteins which activate adenylate cyclase.
TAB1	The protein encoded by this gene was identified as a regulator of the MAP kinase kinase kinase MAP3K7/TAK1, which is known to mediate various intracellular signaling pathways, such as those induced by TGF beta, interleukin 1, and WNT-1. This protein interacts and thus activates TAK1 kinase. It has been shown that the C-terminal portion of this protein is sufficient for binding and activation of TAK1, while a portion of the N-terminus acts as a dominant-negative inhibitor of TGF beta, suggesting that this protein may function as a mediator between TGF beta receptors and TAK1. This protein can also interact with and activate the mitogen-activated protein kinase 14 (MAPK14/p38alpha), and thus represents an alternative activation pathway, in addition to the MAPKK pathways, which contributes to the biological responses of MAPK14 to various stimuli. Alternatively spliced transcript variants encoding distinct isoforms have been reported.
TAC3	This gene encodes a member of the tachykinin family of secreted neuropeptides. The encoded preproprotein is proteolytically processed to generate the mature peptide, which is primarily expressed in the central and peripheral nervous systems and functions as a neurotransmitter. This peptide is the ligand for the neurokinin-3 receptor. This protein is also expressed in the outer syncytiotrophoblast of the placenta and may be associated with pregnancy-induced hypertension and pre-eclampsia. Mutations in this gene are associated with normosmic hypogonadotropic hypogonadism. Alternative splicing results in multiple transcript variants, at least one of which encodes an isoform that is proteolytically processed.
TACR1	This gene belongs to a gene family of tachykinin receptors. These tachykinin receptors are characterized by interactions with G proteins and contain seven hydrophobic transmembrane regions. This gene encodes the receptor for the tachykinin substance P, also referred to as neurokinin 1. The encoded protein is also involved in the mediation of phosphatidylinositol metabolism of substance P.
TACR2	This gene belongs to a family of genes that function as receptors for tachykinins.  Receptor affinities are specified by variations in the 5'-end of the sequence.  The receptors belonging to this family are characterized by interactions with G proteins and 7 hydrophobic transmembrane regions.  This gene encodes the receptor for the tachykinin neuropeptide substance K, also referred to as neurokinin A.
TACR3	This gene belongs to a family of genes that function as receptors for tachykinins.  Receptor affinities are specified by variations in the 5'-end of the sequence.  The receptors belonging to this family are characterized by interactions with G proteins and 7 hydrophobic transmembrane regions.  This gene encodes the receptor for the tachykinin neurokinin 3, also referred to as neurokinin B.
TACSTD2	This intronless gene encodes a carcinoma-associated antigen. This antigen is a cell surface receptor that transduces calcium signals. Mutations of this gene have been associated with gelatinous drop-like corneal dystrophy.
TAF1	Initiation of transcription by RNA polymerase II requires the activities of more than 70 polypeptides. The protein that coordinates these activities is the basal transcription factor TFIID, which binds to the core promoter to position the polymerase properly, serves as the scaffold for assembly of the remainder of the transcription complex, and acts as a channel for regulatory signals. TFIID is composed of the TATA-binding protein (TBP) and a group of evolutionarily conserved proteins known as TBP-associated factors or TAFs. TAFs may participate in basal transcription, serve as coactivators, function in promoter recognition or modify general transcription factors (GTFs) to facilitate complex assembly and transcription initiation. This gene encodes the largest subunit of TFIID. This subunit binds to core promoter sequences encompassing the transcription start site. It also binds to activators and other transcriptional regulators, and these interactions affect the rate of transcription initiation. This subunit contains two independent protein kinase domains at the N- and C-terminals, but also possesses acetyltransferase activity and can act as a ubiquitin-activating/conjugating enzyme. Mutations in this gene result in Dystonia 3, torsion, X-linked, a dystonia-parkinsonism disorder. Alternative splicing of this gene results in multiple transcript variants. This gene is part of a complex transcription unit (TAF1/DYT3), wherein some transcript variants share exons with TAF1 as well as additional downstream DYT3 exons.
TAF1L	This locus is intronless, and apparently arose in the primate lineage from retrotransposition of the transcript from the multi-exon TAF1 locus on the X chromosome. The gene is expressed in male germ cells, and the product has been shown to function interchangeably with the TAF1 product.
TAOK1	Serine/threonine-protein kinase involved in various processes such as p38/MAPK14 stress-activated MAPK cascade, DNA damage response and regulation of cytoskeleton stability. Phosphorylates MAP2K3, MAP2K6 and MARK2. Acts as an activator of the p38/MAPK14 stress-activated MAPK cascade by mediating phosphorylation and subsequent activation of the upstream MAP2K3 and MAP2K6 kinases. Involved in G-protein coupled receptor signaling to p38/MAPK14. In response to DNA damage, involved in the G2/M transition DNA damage checkpoint by activating the p38/MAPK14 stress-activated MAPK cascade, probably by mediating phosphorylation of MAP2K3 and MAP2K6. Acts as a regulator of cytoskeleton stability by phosphorylating 'Thr-208' of MARK2, leading to activate MARK2 kinase activity and subsequent phosphorylation and detachment of MAPT/TAU from microtubules. Also acts as a regulator of apoptosis: regulates apoptotic morphological changes, including cell contraction, membrane blebbing and apoptotic bodies formation via activation of the MAPK8/JNK cascade.
TAOK2	This gene encodes a serine/threonine protein kinase that is involved in many different processes, including, cell signaling, microtubule organization and stability, and apoptosis. Alternatively spliced transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been described for this gene.
TAOK3	The protein encoded by this gene is a serine/threonine protein kinase that activates the p38/MAPK14 stress-activated MAPK cascade but inhibits the basal activity of the MAPK8/JNK cascade. The encoded protein is a member of the GCK subfamily of STE20-like kinases.
TARDBP	HIV-1, the causative agent of acquired immunodeficiency syndrome (AIDS), contains an RNA genome that produces a chromosomally integrated DNA during the replicative cycle. Activation of HIV-1 gene expression by the transactivator Tat is dependent on an RNA regulatory element (TAR) located downstream of the transcription initiation site. The protein encoded by this gene is a transcriptional repressor that binds to chromosomally integrated TAR DNA and represses HIV-1 transcription. In addition, this protein regulates alternate splicing of the CFTR gene. A similar pseudogene is present on chromosome 20.
TARS	Aminoacyl-tRNA synthetases catalyze the aminoacylation of tRNA by their cognate amino acid. Because of their central role in linking amino acids with nucleotide triplets contained in tRNAs, aminoacyl-tRNA synthetases are thought to be among the first proteins that appeared in evolution. Threonyl-tRNA synthetase belongs to the class-II aminoacyl-tRNA synthetase family
TARS2	This gene encodes a member of the class-II aminoacyl-tRNA synthetase family. The encoded protein is a mitochondrial aminoacyl-tRNA synthetase. Alternative splicing results in multiple transcript variants. A related pseudogene has been identified on chromosome 4.
TAS1R2	Putative taste receptor. TAS1R2/TAS1R3 recognizes diverse natural and synthetic sweeteners.
TAS1R3	The protein encoded by this gene is a G-protein coupled receptor involved in taste responses. The encoded protein can form a heterodimeric receptor with TAS1R1 to elicit the umami taste response, or it can bind with TAS1R2 to form a receptor for the sweet taste response.
TAS2R14	This gene product belongs to the family of candidate taste receptors that are members of the G-protein-coupled receptor superfamily. These proteins are specifically expressed in the taste receptor cells of the tongue and palate epithelia. They are organized in the genome in clusters and are genetically linked to loci that influence bitter perception in mice and humans. In functional expression studies, they respond to bitter tastants. This gene maps to the taste receptor gene cluster on chromosome 12p13.
TAS2R16	This gene encodes a member of a family of candidate taste receptors that are members of the G protein-coupled receptor superfamily. These family members are specifically expressed by taste receptor cells of the tongue and palate epithelia. Each of these apparently intronless genes encodes a 7-transmembrane receptor protein, functioning as a bitter taste receptor. This gene is clustered with another 3 candidate taste receptor genes in chromosome 7 and is genetically linked to loci that influence bitter perception.
TAS2R31	TAS2R44 belongs to the large TAS2R receptor family. TAS2Rs are expressed on the surface of taste receptor cells and mediate the perception of bitterness through a G protein-coupled second messenger pathway (Conte et al., 2002
TAS2R4	This gene encodes a member of a family of candidate taste receptors that are members of the G protein-coupled receptor superfamily and that are specifically expressed by taste receptor cells of the tongue and palate epithelia. These apparently intronless genes encode a 7-transmembrane receptor protein, functioning as a bitter taste receptor. This gene is clustered with another 3 candidate taste receptor genes in chromosome 7 and is genetically linked to loci that influence bitter perception.
TAS2R41	This gene encodes a member of the bitter taste receptor family which belong to the G protein-coupled receptor superfamily and are predominantly expressed in taste receptor cells of the tongue and palate epithelia. This intronless taste receptor gene encodes a seven-transmembrane receptor protein, functioning as a bitter taste receptor. This gene is clustered together with eight other taste receptor genes on chromosome 7. Chloramphenicol is an agonist for the encoded protein.
TAS2R60	This gene encodes a member of the bitter taste receptor family which belong to the G protein-coupled receptor superfamily and are predominantly expressed in taste receptor cells of the tongue and palate epithelia. This intronless taste receptor gene encodes a seven-transmembrane receptor protein, functioning as a bitter taste receptor. This gene is clustered together with eight other taste receptor genes on chromosome 7.
TAS2R8	This gene product belongs to the family of candidate taste receptors that are members of the G-protein-coupled receptor superfamily. These proteins are specifically expressed in the taste receptor cells of the tongue and palate epithelia. They are organized in the genome in clusters and are genetically linked to loci that influence bitter perception in mice and humans. In functional expression studies, they respond to bitter tastants. This gene maps to the taste receptor gene cluster on chromosome 12p13.
TAS2R9	This gene product belongs to the family of candidate taste receptors that are members of the G-protein-coupled receptor superfamily. These proteins are specifically expressed in the taste receptor cells of the tongue and palate epithelia. They are organized in the genome in clusters and are genetically linked to loci that influence bitter perception in mice and humans. In functional expression studies, they respond to bitter tastants. This gene maps to the taste receptor gene cluster on chromosome 12p13.
TASP1	This gene encodes an endopeptidase that cleaves specific substrates following aspartate residues. The encoded protein undergoes posttranslational autoproteolytic processing to generate alpha and beta subunits, which reassemble into the active alpha2-beta2 heterotetramer. It is required to cleave MLL, a protein required for the maintenance of HOX gene expression, and TFIIA, a basal transcription factor. Alternatively spliced transcript variants have been described, but their biological validity has not been determined.
TAT	This nuclear gene encodes a mitochondrial protein tyrosine aminotransferase which is present in the liver and catalyzes the conversion of L-tyrosine into p-hydroxyphenylpyruvate. Mutations in this gene cause tyrosinemia (type II, Richner-Hanhart syndrome), a disorder accompanied by major skin and corneal lesions, with possible cognitive disability. A regulator gene for tyrosine aminotransferase is X-linked.
TBK1	The NF-kappa-B (NFKB) complex of proteins is inhibited by I-kappa-B (IKB) proteins, which inactivate NFKB by trapping it in the cytoplasm. Phosphorylation of serine residues on the IKB proteins by IKB kinases marks them for destruction via the ubiquitination pathway, thereby allowing activation and nuclear translocation of the NFKB complex. The protein encoded by this gene is similar to IKB kinases and can mediate NFKB activation in response to certain growth factors.
TBX5	This gene is a member of a phylogenetically conserved family of genes that share a common DNA-binding domain, the T-box. T-box genes encode transcription factors involved in the regulation of developmental processes. This gene is closely linked to related family member T-box 3 (ulnar mammary syndrome) on human chromosome 12. The encoded protein may play a role in heart development and specification of limb identity. Mutations in this gene have been associated with Holt-Oram syndrome, a developmental disorder affecting the heart and upper limbs. Several transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been described for this gene.
TBXA2R	This gene encodes a member of the G protein-coupled receptor family. The protein interacts with thromboxane A2 to induce platelet aggregation and regulate hemostasis. A mutation in this gene results in a bleeding disorder. Multiple transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been found for this gene.
TBXAS1	This gene encodes a member of the cytochrome P450 superfamily of enzymes. The cytochrome P450 proteins are monooxygenases which catalyze many reactions involved in drug metabolism and synthesis of cholesterol, steroids and other lipids. However, this protein is considered a member of the cytochrome P450 superfamily on the basis of sequence similarity rather than functional similarity. This endoplasmic reticulum membrane protein catalyzes the conversion of prostglandin H2 to thromboxane A2, a potent vasoconstrictor and inducer of platelet aggregation. The enzyme plays a role in several pathophysiological processes including hemostasis, cardiovascular disease, and stroke. Alternatively spliced transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been found for this gene.
TCF4	This gene encodes transcription factor 4, a basic helix-loop-helix transcription factor. The encoded protein recognizes an Ephrussi-box ('E-box') binding site ('CANNTG')
TDGF1	This gene encodes an epidermal growth factor-related protein that contains a cripto, FRL-1, and cryptic domain. The encoded protein is an extracellular, membrane-bound signaling protein that plays an essential role in embryonic development and tumor growth. Mutations in this gene are associated with forebrain defects. Pseudogenes of this gene are found on chromosomes 2, 3, 6, 8, 19 and X. Alternate splicing results in multiple transcript variants.
TDO2	This gene encodes a heme enzyme that plays a critical role in tryptophan metabolism by catalyzing the first and rate-limiting step of the kynurenine pathway. Increased activity of the encoded protein and subsequent kynurenine production may also play a role in cancer through the suppression of antitumor immune responses, and single nucleotide polymorphisms in this gene may be associated with autism.
TDP1	The protein encoded by this gene is involved in repairing stalled topoisomerase I-DNA complexes by catalyzing the hydrolysis of the phosphodiester bond between the tyrosine residue of topoisomerase I and the 3-prime phosphate of DNA. This protein may also remove glycolate from single-stranded DNA containing 3-prime phosphoglycolate, suggesting a role in repair of free-radical mediated DNA double-strand breaks. This gene is a member of the phospholipase D family and contains two PLD phosphodiesterase domains. Mutations in this gene are associated with the disease spinocerebellar ataxia with axonal neuropathy (SCAN1).
TDP2	This gene encodes a member of a superfamily of divalent cation-dependent phosphodiesterases. The encoded protein associates with CD40, tumor necrosis factor (TNF) receptor-75 and TNF receptor associated factors (TRAFs), and inhibits nuclear factor-kappa-B activation. This protein has sequence and structural similarities with APE1 endonuclease, which is involved in both DNA repair and the activation of transcription factors.
TDRD3	Scaffolding protein that specifically recognizes and binds dimethylarginine-containing proteins. In nucleus, acts as a coactivator: recognizes and binds asymmetric dimethylation on the core histone tails associated with transcriptional activation (H3R17me2a and H4R3me2a) and recruits proteins at these arginine-methylated loci. In cytoplasm, may play a role in the assembly and/or disassembly of mRNA stress granules and in the regulation of translation of target mRNAs by binding Arg/Gly-rich motifs (GAR) in dimethylarginine-containing proteins.
TEAD1	This gene encodes a ubiquitous transcriptional enhancer factor that is a member of the TEA/ATTS domain family. This protein directs the transactivation of a wide variety of genes and, in placental cells, also acts as a transcriptional repressor. Mutations in this gene cause Sveinsson's chorioretinal atrophy. Additional transcript variants have been described but their full-length natures have not been experimentally verified.
TEC	The protein encoded by this gene belongs to the Tec family of non-receptor protein-tyrosine kinases containing a pleckstrin homology domain. Tec family kinases are involved in the intracellular signaling mechanisms of cytokine receptors, lymphocyte surface antigens, heterotrimeric G-protein coupled receptors, and integrin molecules. They are also key players in the regulation of the immune functions. Tec kinase is an integral component of T cell signaling and has a distinct role in T cell activation. This gene may be associated with myelodysplastic syndrome.
TEK	This gene encodes a receptor that belongs to the protein tyrosine kinase Tie2 family. The encoded protein possesses a unique extracellular region that contains two immunoglobulin-like domains, three epidermal growth factor (EGF)-like domains and three fibronectin type III repeats. The ligand angiopoietin-1 binds to this receptor and mediates a signaling pathway that functions in embryonic vascular development. Mutations in this gene are associated with inherited venous malformations of the skin and mucous membranes. Alternative splicing results in multiple transcript variants. Additional alternatively spliced transcript variants of this gene have been described, but their full-length nature is not known.
TERF2IP	The gene encodes a protein that is part of a complex involved in telomere length regulation. Pseudogenes are present on chromosomes 5 and 22.
TERT	Telomerase is a ribonucleoprotein polymerase that maintains telomere ends by addition of the telomere repeat TTAGGG. The enzyme consists of a protein component with reverse transcriptase activity, encoded by this gene, and an RNA component which serves as a template for the telomere repeat. Telomerase expression plays a role in cellular senescence, as it is normally repressed in postnatal somatic cells resulting in progressive shortening of telomeres. Deregulation of telomerase expression in somatic cells may be involved in oncogenesis. Studies in mouse suggest that telomerase also participates in chromosomal repair, since de novo synthesis of telomere repeats may occur at double-stranded breaks. Alternatively spliced variants encoding different isoforms of telomerase reverse transcriptase have been identified; the full-length sequence of some variants has not been determined. Alternative splicing at this locus is thought to be one mechanism of regulation of telomerase activity.
TESK1	This gene product is a serine/threonine protein kinase that contains an N-terminal protein kinase domain and a C-terminal proline-rich domain. Its protein kinase domain is most closely related to those of the LIM motif-containing protein kinases (LIMKs). The encoded protein can phosphorylate myelin basic protein and histone in vitro. The testicular germ cell-specific expression and developmental pattern of expression of the mouse gene suggests that this gene plays an important role at and after the meiotic phase of spermatogenesis. Alternative splicing results in multiple transcript variants encoding different isoforms.
TESK2	This gene product is a serine/threonine protein kinase that contains an N-terminal protein kinase domain that is structurally similar to the kinase domains of testis-specific protein kinase-1 and the LIM motif-containing protein kinases (LIMKs). Its overall structure is most related to the former, indicating that it belongs to the TESK subgroup of the LIMK/TESK family of protein kinases. This gene is predominantly expressed in testis and prostate. The developmental expression pattern of the rat gene in testis suggests an important role for this gene in meitoic stages and/or early stages of spermiogenesis. Alternative splicing results in multiple transcript variants.
TF	This gene encodes a glycoprotein with an approximate molecular weight of 76.5 kDa. It is thought to have been created as a result of an ancient gene duplication event that led to generation of homologous C and N-terminal domains each of which binds one ion of ferric iron. The function of this protein is to transport iron from the intestine, reticuloendothelial system, and liver parenchymal cells to all proliferating cells in the body. This protein may also have a physiologic role as granulocyte/pollen-binding protein (GPBP) involved in the removal of certain organic matter and allergens from serum.
TFPI	This gene encodes a Kunitz-type serine protease inhibitor that regulates the tissue factor (TF)-dependent pathway of blood coagulation. The coagulation process initiates with the formation of a factor VIIa-TF complex, which proteolytically activates additional proteases (factors IX and X) and ultimately leads to the formation of a fibrin clot. The product of this gene inhibits the activated factor X and VIIa-TF proteases in an autoregulatory loop. Inhibition of the encoded protein restores hemostasis in animal models of hemophilia. This gene encodes multiple protein isoforms that differ in their inhibitory activity, specificity and cellular localization.
TFRC	This gene encodes a cell surface receptor necessary for cellular iron uptake by the process of receptor-mediated endocytosis. This receptor is required for erythropoiesis and neurologic development. Multiple alternatively spliced variants have been identified.
TGFB1	This gene encodes a secreted ligand of the TGF-beta (transforming growth factor-beta) superfamily of proteins. Ligands of this family bind various TGF-beta receptors leading to recruitment and activation of SMAD family transcription factors that regulate gene expression. The encoded preproprotein is proteolytically processed to generate a latency-associated peptide (LAP) and a mature peptide, and is found in either a latent form composed of a mature peptide homodimer, a LAP homodimer, and a latent TGF-beta binding protein, or in an active form consisting solely of the mature peptide homodimer. The mature peptide may also form heterodimers with other TGFB family members. This encoded protein regulates cell proliferation, differentiation and growth, and can modulate expression and activation of other growth factors including interferon gamma and tumor necrosis factor alpha. This gene is frequently upregulated in tumor cells, and mutations in this gene result in Camurati-Engelmann disease.
TGFB2	This gene encodes a secreted ligand of the TGF-beta (transforming growth factor-beta) superfamily of proteins. Ligands of this family bind various TGF-beta receptors leading to recruitment and activation of SMAD family transcription factors that regulate gene expression. The encoded preproprotein is proteolytically processed to generate a latency-associated peptide (LAP) and a mature peptide, and is found in either a latent form composed of a mature peptide homodimer, a LAP homodimer, and a latent TGF-beta binding protein, or in an active form consisting solely of the mature peptide homodimer. The mature peptide may also form heterodimers with other TGF-beta family members. Disruption of the TGF-beta/SMAD pathway has been implicated in a variety of human cancers. A chromosomal translocation that includes this gene is associated with Peters' anomaly, a congenital defect of the anterior chamber of the eye. Mutations in this gene may be associated with Loeys-Dietz syndrome. This gene encodes multiple isoforms that may undergo similar proteolytic processing.
TGFB3	This gene encodes a secreted ligand of the TGF-beta (transforming growth factor-beta) superfamily of proteins. Ligands of this family bind various TGF-beta receptors leading to recruitment and activation of SMAD family transcription factors that regulate gene expression. The encoded preproprotein is proteolytically processed to generate a latency-associated peptide (LAP) and a mature peptide, and is found in either a latent form composed of a mature peptide homodimer, a LAP homodimer, and a latent TGF-beta binding protein, or in an active form consisting solely of the mature peptide homodimer. The mature peptide may also form heterodimers with other TGF-beta family members. This protein is involved in embryogenesis and cell differentiation, and may play a role in wound healing. Mutations in this gene are a cause of aortic aneurysms and dissections, as well as familial arrhythmogenic right ventricular dysplasia 1.
TGFBR1	The protein encoded by this gene forms a heteromeric complex with type II TGF-beta receptors when bound to TGF-beta, transducing the TGF-beta signal from the cell surface to the cytoplasm. The encoded protein is a serine/threonine protein kinase. Mutations in this gene have been associated with Loeys-Dietz aortic aneurysm syndrome (LDAS). Multiple transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been found for this gene.
TGFBR2	The protein encoded by this gene is a transmembrane protein that has a protein kinase domain, forms a heterodimeric complex with TGF-beta receptor type-1, and binds TGF-beta. This receptor/ligand complex phosphorylates proteins, which then enter the nucleus and regulate the transcription of genes related to cell proliferation, cell cycle arrest, wound healing, immunosuppression, and tumorigenesis. Mutations in this gene have been associated with Marfan Syndrome, Loeys-Deitz Aortic Aneurysm Syndrome, and the development of various types of tumors. Alternatively spliced transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been characterized.
TGM1	The protein encoded by this gene is a membrane protein that catalyzes the addition of an alkyl group from an akylamine to a glutamine residue of a protein, forming an alkylglutamine in the protein. This protein alkylation leads to crosslinking of proteins and catenation of polyamines to proteins. This gene contains either one or two copies of a 22 nt repeat unit in its 3' UTR. Mutations in this gene have been associated with autosomal recessive lamellar ichthyosis (LI) and nonbullous congenital ichthyosiform erythroderma (NCIE).
TGM2	Transglutaminases are enzymes that catalyze the crosslinking of proteins by epsilon-gamma glutamyl lysine isopeptide bonds. While the primary structure of transglutaminases is not conserved, they all have the same amino acid sequence at their active sites and their activity is calcium-dependent. The protein encoded by this gene acts as a monomer, is induced by retinoic acid, and appears to be involved in apoptosis. Finally, the encoded protein is the autoantigen implicated in celiac disease. Two transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been found for this gene.
TGM3	Transglutaminases are enzymes that catalyze the crosslinking of proteins by epsilon-gamma glutamyl lysine isopeptide bonds. While the primary structure of transglutaminases is not conserved, they all have the same amino acid sequence at their active sites and their activity is calcium-dependent. The protein encoded by this gene consists of two polypeptide chains activated from a single precursor protein by proteolysis. The encoded protein is involved the later stages of cell envelope formation in the epidermis and hair follicle.
TGM6	The protein encoded by this gene belongs to the transglutaminase superfamily. It catalyzes the cross-linking of proteins and the conjugation of polyamines to proteins. Mutations in this gene are associated with spinocerebellar ataxia type 35 (SCA35). Alternatively spliced transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been found for this gene.
TH	The protein encoded by this gene is involved in the conversion of tyrosine to dopamine. It is the rate-limiting enzyme in the synthesis of catecholamines, hence plays a key role in the physiology of adrenergic neurons. Mutations in this gene have been associated with autosomal recessive Segawa syndrome. Alternatively spliced transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been noted for this gene.
THPO	Megakaryocytopoiesis is the cellular development process that leads to platelet production. The main functional protein encoded by this gene is a humoral growth factor that is necessary for megakaryocyte proliferation and maturation, as well as for thrombopoiesis. This protein is the ligand for MLP/C_MPL, the product of myeloproliferative leukemia virus oncogene. Mutations in this gene are the cause of thrombocythemia 1. Alternative promoter usage and differential splicing result in multiple transcript variants differing in the 5' UTR and/or coding region. Multiple AUG codons upstream of the main open reading frame (ORF) have been identified, and these upstream AUGs inhibit translation of the main ORF at different extent.
THRA	The protein encoded by this gene is a nuclear hormone receptor for triiodothyronine. It is one of the several receptors for thyroid hormone, and has been shown to mediate the biological activities of thyroid hormone. Knockout studies in mice suggest that the different receptors, while having certain extent of redundancy, may mediate different functions of thyroid hormone. Alternatively spliced transcript variants encoding distinct isoforms have been reported.
THRB	The protein encoded by this gene is a nuclear hormone receptor for triiodothyronine. It is one of the several receptors for thyroid hormone, and has been shown to mediate the biological activities of thyroid hormone. Knockout studies in mice suggest that the different receptors, while having certain extent of redundancy, may mediate different functions of thyroid hormone. Mutations in this gene are known to be a cause of generalized thyroid hormone resistance (GTHR), a syndrome characterized by goiter and high levels of circulating thyroid hormone (T3-T4), with normal or slightly elevated thyroid stimulating hormone (TSH). Several alternatively spliced transcript variants encoding the same protein have been observed for this gene.
TIE1	This gene encodes a member of the tyrosine protein kinase family. The encoded protein plays a critical role in angiogenesis and blood vessel stability by inhibiting angiopoietin 1 signaling through the endothelial receptor tyrosine kinase Tie2. Ectodomain cleavage of the encoded protein relieves inhibition of Tie2 and is mediated by multiple factors including vascular endothelial growth factor. Alternatively spliced transcript variants encoding multiple isoforms have been observed for this gene.
TIPARP	This gene encodes a member of the poly(ADP-ribose) polymerase superfamily. Studies of the mouse ortholog have shown that the encoded protein catalyzes histone poly(ADP-ribosyl)ation and may be involved in T-cell function. Alternative splicing results in multiple transcript variants.
TK1	The protein encoded by this gene is a cytosolic enzyme that catalyzes the addition of a gamma-phosphate group to thymidine. This creates dTMP and is the first step in the biosynthesis of dTTP, which is one component required for DNA replication. The encoded protein, whose levels fluctuate depending on the cell cycle stage, can act as a low activity dimer or a high activity tetramer. High levels of this protein have been used as a biomarker for diagnosing and categorizing many types of cancers.
TK2	This gene encodes a deoxyribonucleoside kinase that specifically phosphorylates thymidine, deoxycytidine, and deoxyuridine. The encoded enzyme localizes to the mitochondria and is required for mitochondrial DNA synthesis. Mutations in this gene are associated with a myopathic form of mitochondrial DNA depletion syndrome. Alternate splicing results in multiple transcript variants encoding distinct isoforms, some of which lack transit peptide, so are not localized to mitochondria.
TKT	This gene encodes a thiamine-dependent enzyme which plays a role in the channeling of excess sugar phosphates to glycolysis in the pentose phosphate pathway. Alternatively spliced transcript variants encoding multiple isoforms have been observed for this gene.
TLK1	The protein encoded by this gene is a serine/threonine kinase that may be involved in the regulation of chromatin assembly. The encoded protein is only active when it is phosphorylated, and this phosphorylation is cell cycle-dependent, with the maximal activity of this protein coming during S phase. The catalytic activity of this protein is diminished by DNA damage and by blockage of DNA replication. Three transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been found for this gene.
TLK2	This gene encodes a nuclear serine/threonine kinase that was first identified in Arabidopsis. The encoded protein is thought to function in the regulation of chromatin assembly in the S phase of the cell cycle by regulating the levels of a histone H3/H4 chaperone. This protein is associated with double-strand break repair of DNA damage caused by radiation. Pseudogenes of this gene are present on chromosomes 10 and 17. Alternate splicing results in multiple transcript variants.
TLR2	The protein encoded by this gene is a member of the Toll-like receptor (TLR) family which plays a fundamental role in pathogen recognition and activation of innate immunity. TLRs are highly conserved from Drosophila to humans and share structural and functional similarities. This protein is a cell-surface protein that can form heterodimers with other TLR family members to recognize conserved molecules derived from microorganisms known as pathogen-associated molecular patterns (PAMPs). Activation of TLRs by PAMPs leads to an up-regulation of signaling pathways to modulate the host's inflammatory response. This gene is also thought to promote apoptosis in response to bacterial lipoproteins. This gene has been implicated in the pathogenesis of several autoimmune diseases. Alternative splicing results in multiple transcript variants.
TLR3	The protein encoded by this gene is a member of the Toll-like receptor (TLR) family which plays a fundamental role in pathogen recognition and activation of innate immunity. TLRs are highly conserved from Drosophila to humans and share structural and functional similarities. They recognize pathogen-associated molecular patterns (PAMPs) that are expressed on infectious agents, and mediate the production of cytokines necessary for the development of effective immunity. The various TLRs exhibit different patterns of expression. This receptor is most abundantly expressed in placenta and pancreas, and is restricted to the dendritic subpopulation of the leukocytes. It recognizes dsRNA associated with viral infection, and induces the activation of NF-kappaB and the production of type I interferons. It may thus play a role in host defense against viruses. Use of alternative polyadenylation sites to generate different length transcripts has been noted for this gene.
TLR4	The protein encoded by this gene is a member of the Toll-like receptor (TLR) family which plays a fundamental role in pathogen recognition and activation of innate immunity. TLRs are highly conserved from Drosophila to humans and share structural and functional similarities. They recognize pathogen-associated molecular patterns that are expressed on infectious agents, and mediate the production of cytokines necessary for the development of effective immunity. The various TLRs exhibit different patterns of expression. This receptor has been implicated in signal transduction events induced by lipopolysaccharide (LPS) found in most gram-negative bacteria. Mutations in this gene have been associated with differences in LPS responsiveness. Multiple transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been found for this gene.
TLR5	This gene encodes a member of the toll-like receptor (TLR) family, which plays a fundamental role in pathogen recognition and activation of innate immune responses. These receptors recognize distinct pathogen-associated molecular patterns that are expressed on infectious agents. The protein encoded by this gene recognizes bacterial flagellin, the principal component of bacterial flagella and a virulence factor. The activation of this receptor mobilizes the nuclear factor NF-kappaB, which in turn activates a host of inflammatory-related target genes. Mutations in this gene have been associated with both resistance and susceptibility to systemic lupus erythematosus, and susceptibility to Legionnaire disease.
TLR7	The protein encoded by this gene is a member of the Toll-like receptor (TLR) family which plays a fundamental role in pathogen recognition and activation of innate immunity. TLRs are highly conserved from Drosophila to humans and share structural and functional similarities. They recognize pathogen-associated molecular patterns (PAMPs) that are expressed on infectious agents, and mediate the production of cytokines necessary for the development of effective immunity. The various TLRs exhibit different patterns of expression. This gene is predominantly expressed in lung, placenta, and spleen, and lies in close proximity to another family member, TLR8, on chromosome X.
TLR8	The protein encoded by this gene is a member of the Toll-like receptor (TLR) family which plays a fundamental role in pathogen recognition and activation of innate immunity. TLRs are highly conserved from Drosophila to humans and share structural and functional similarities. They recognize pathogen-associated molecular patterns (PAMPs) that are expressed on infectious agents, and mediate the production of cytokines necessary for the development of effective immunity. The various TLRs exhibit different patterns of expression. This gene is predominantly expressed in lung and peripheral blood leukocytes, and lies in close proximity to another family member, TLR7, on chromosome X.
TLR9	The protein encoded by this gene is a member of the Toll-like receptor (TLR) family, which plays a fundamental role in pathogen recognition and activation of innate immunity. TLRs are highly conserved from Drosophila to humans and share structural and functional similarities. They recognize pathogen-associated molecular patterns (PAMPs) that are expressed on infectious agents, and mediate the production of cytokines necessary for the development of effective immunity. Studies in mice and human indicate that this receptor mediates cellular response to unmethylated CpG dinucleotides in bacterial DNA to mount an innate immune response.
TM7SF2	Catalyzes the reduction of the C14-unsaturated bond of lanosterol, as part of the metabolic pathway leading to cholesterol biosynthesis.
TMPRSS11D	This gene encodes a trypsin-like serine protease released from the submucosal serous glands onto mucous membrane. It is a type II integral membrane protein and has 29-38% identity in the sequence of the catalytic region with human hepsin, enteropeptidase, acrosin, and mast cell tryptase. The noncatalytic region has little similarity to other known proteins. This protein may play some biological role in the host defense system on the mucous membrane independently of or in cooperation with other substances in airway mucous or bronchial secretions.
TMPRSS15	This gene encodes an enzyme that converts the pancreatic proenzyme trypsinogen to trypsin, which activates other proenzymes including chymotrypsinogen and procarboxypeptidases. The precursor protein is cleaved into two chains that form a heterodimer linked by a disulfide bond. This protein is a member of the trypsin family of peptidases. Mutations in this gene cause enterokinase deficiency, a malabsorption disorder characterized by diarrhea and failure to thrive.
TMPRSS2	This gene encodes a protein that belongs to the serine protease family. The encoded protein contains a type II transmembrane domain, a receptor class A domain, a scavenger receptor cysteine-rich domain and a protease domain. Serine proteases are known to be involved in many physiological and pathological processes. This gene was demonstrated to be up-regulated by androgenic hormones in prostate cancer cells and down-regulated in androgen-independent prostate cancer tissue. The protease domain of this protein is thought to be cleaved and secreted into cell media after autocleavage. Alternatively spliced transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been found for this gene.
TMPRSS4	This gene encodes a member of the serine protease family. Serine proteases are known to be involved in a variety of biological processes, whose malfunction often leads to human diseases and disorders. This gene was identified as a gene overexpressed in pancreatic carcinoma. The encoded protein is membrane bound with a N-terminal anchor sequence and a glycosylated extracellular region containing the serine protease domain. Multiple transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been found for this gene.
TMPRSS6	The protein encoded by this gene is a type II transmembrane serine proteinase that is found attached to the cell surface. The encoded protein may be involved in matrix remodeling processes in the liver. Alternative splicing results in multiple transcript variants.
TNC	This gene encodes an extracellular matrix protein with a spatially and temporally restricted tissue distribution. This protein is homohexameric with disulfide-linked subunits, and contains multiple EGF-like and fibronectin type-III domains. It is implicated in guidance of migrating neurons as well as axons during development, synaptic plasticity, and neuronal regeneration.
TNF	This gene encodes a multifunctional proinflammatory cytokine that belongs to the tumor necrosis factor (TNF) superfamily. This cytokine is mainly secreted by macrophages. It can bind to, and thus functions through its receptors TNFRSF1A/TNFR1 and TNFRSF1B/TNFBR. This cytokine is involved in the regulation of a wide spectrum of biological processes including cell proliferation, differentiation, apoptosis, lipid metabolism, and coagulation. This cytokine has been implicated in a variety of diseases, including autoimmune diseases, insulin resistance, and cancer. Knockout studies in mice also suggested the neuroprotective function of this cytokine.
TNFRSF10A	The protein encoded by this gene is a member of the TNF-receptor superfamily. This receptor is activated by tumor necrosis factor-related apoptosis inducing ligand (TNFSF10/TRAIL), and thus transduces cell death signal and induces cell apoptosis. Studies with FADD-deficient mice suggested that FADD, a death domain containing adaptor protein, is required for the apoptosis mediated by this protein.
TNFRSF10B	The protein encoded by this gene is a member of the TNF-receptor superfamily, and contains an intracellular death domain. This receptor can be activated by tumor necrosis factor-related apoptosis inducing ligand (TNFSF10/TRAIL/APO-2L), and transduces an apoptosis signal. Studies with FADD-deficient mice suggested that FADD, a death domain containing adaptor protein, is required for the apoptosis mediated by this protein. Two transcript variants encoding different isoforms and one non-coding transcript have been found for this gene.
TNFRSF12A	Receptor for TNFSF12/TWEAK. Weak inducer of apoptosis in some cell types. Promotes angiogenesis and the proliferation of endothelial cells. May modulate cellular adhesion to matrix proteins.
TNFRSF18	This gene encodes a member of the TNF-receptor superfamily. The encoded receptor has been shown to have increased expression upon T-cell activation, and it is thought to play a key role in dominant immunological self-tolerance maintained by CD25(+)CD4(+) regulatory T cells. Knockout studies in mice also suggest the role of this receptor is in the regulation of CD3-driven T-cell activation and programmed cell death. Three alternatively spliced transcript variants of this gene encoding distinct isoforms have been reported.
TNFRSF1A	This gene encodes a member of the TNF receptor superfamily of proteins. The encoded receptor is found in membrane-bound and soluble forms that interact with membrane-bound and soluble forms, respectively, of its ligand, tumor necrosis factor alpha. Binding of membrane-bound tumor necrosis factor alpha to the membrane-bound receptor induces receptor trimerization and activation, which plays a role in cell survival, apoptosis, and inflammation. Proteolytic processing of the encoded receptor results in release of the soluble form of the receptor, which can interact with free tumor necrosis factor alpha to inhibit inflammation. Mutations in this gene underlie tumor necrosis factor receptor-associated periodic syndrome (TRAPS), characterized by fever, abdominal pain and other features. Mutations in this gene may also be associated with multiple sclerosis in human patients.
TNFRSF1B	The protein encoded by this gene is a member of the TNF-receptor superfamily. This protein and TNF-receptor 1 form a heterocomplex that mediates the recruitment of two anti-apoptotic proteins, c-IAP1 and c-IAP2, which possess E3 ubiquitin ligase activity. The function of IAPs in TNF-receptor signalling is unknown, however, c-IAP1 is thought to potentiate TNF-induced apoptosis by the ubiquitination and degradation of TNF-receptor-associated factor 2, which mediates anti-apoptotic signals. Knockout studies in mice also suggest a role of this protein in protecting neurons from apoptosis by stimulating antioxidative pathways.
TNFRSF4	The protein encoded by this gene is a member of the TNF-receptor superfamily. This receptor has been shown to activate NF-kappaB through its interaction with adaptor proteins TRAF2 and TRAF5. Knockout studies in mice suggested that this receptor promotes the expression of apoptosis inhibitors BCL2 and BCL2lL1/BCL2-XL, and thus suppresses apoptosis. The knockout studies also suggested the roles of this receptor in CD4+ T cell response, as well as in T cell-dependent B cell proliferation and differentiation.
TNFRSF8	The protein encoded by this gene is a member of the TNF-receptor superfamily. This receptor is expressed by activated, but not by resting, T and B cells. TRAF2 and TRAF5 can interact with this receptor, and mediate the signal transduction that leads to the activation of NF-kappaB. This receptor is a positive regulator of apoptosis, and also has been shown to limit the proliferative potential of autoreactive CD8 effector T cells and protect the body against autoimmunity. Two alternatively spliced transcript variants of this gene encoding distinct isoforms have been reported.
TNFRSF9	The protein encoded by this gene is a member of the TNF-receptor superfamily. This receptor contributes to the clonal expansion, survival, and development of T cells. It can also induce proliferation in peripheral monocytes, enhance T cell apoptosis induced by TCR/CD3 triggered activation, and regulate CD28 co-stimulation to promote Th1 cell responses. The expression of this receptor is induced by lymphocyte activation. TRAF adaptor proteins have been shown to bind to this receptor and transduce the signals leading to activation of NF-kappaB.
TNFSF10	The protein encoded by this gene is a cytokine that belongs to the tumor necrosis factor (TNF) ligand family. This protein preferentially induces apoptosis in transformed and tumor cells, but does not appear to kill normal cells although it is expressed at a significant level in most normal tissues. This protein binds to several members of TNF receptor superfamily including TNFRSF10A/TRAILR1, TNFRSF10B/TRAILR2, TNFRSF10C/TRAILR3, TNFRSF10D/TRAILR4, and possibly also to TNFRSF11B/OPG. The activity of this protein may be modulated by binding to the decoy receptors TNFRSF10C/TRAILR3, TNFRSF10D/TRAILR4, and TNFRSF11B/OPG that cannot induce apoptosis. The binding of this protein to its receptors has been shown to trigger the activation of MAPK8/JNK, caspase 8, and caspase 3. Alternatively spliced transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been found for this gene.
TNFSF11	This gene encodes a member of the tumor necrosis factor (TNF) cytokine family which is a ligand for osteoprotegerin and functions as a key factor for osteoclast differentiation and activation. This protein was shown to be a dentritic cell survival factor and is involved in the regulation of T cell-dependent immune response. T cell activation was reported to induce expression of this gene and lead to an increase of osteoclastogenesis and bone loss. This protein was shown to activate antiapoptotic kinase AKT/PKB through a signaling complex involving SRC kinase and tumor necrosis factor receptor-associated factor (TRAF) 6, which indicated this protein may have a role in the regulation of cell apoptosis. Targeted disruption of the related gene in mice led to severe osteopetrosis and a lack of osteoclasts. The deficient mice exhibited defects in early differentiation of T and B lymphocytes, and failed to form lobulo-alveolar mammary structures during pregnancy. Two alternatively spliced transcript variants have been found.
TNFSF12	The protein encoded by this gene is a cytokine that belongs to the tumor necrosis factor (TNF) ligand family. This protein is a ligand for the FN14/TWEAKR receptor. This cytokine has overlapping signaling functions with TNF, but displays a much wider tissue distribution. This cytokine, which exists in both membrane-bound and secreted forms, can induce apoptosis via multiple pathways of cell death in a cell type-specific manner. This cytokine is also found to promote proliferation and migration of endothelial cells, and thus acts as a regulator of angiogenesis. Alternative splicing results in multiple transcript variants. Some transcripts skip the last exon of this gene and continue into the second exon of the neighboring TNFSF13 gene; such read-through transcripts are contained in GeneID 407977, TNFSF12-TNFSF13.
TNFSF13	The protein encoded by this gene is a member of the tumor necrosis factor (TNF) ligand family. This protein is a ligand for TNFRSF17/BCMA, a member of the TNF receptor family. This protein and its receptor are both found to be important for B cell development. In vitro experiments suggested that this protein may be able to induce apoptosis through its interaction with other TNF receptor family proteins such as TNFRSF6/FAS and TNFRSF14/HVEM. Alternative splicing results in multiple transcript variants. Some transcripts that skip the last exon of the upstream gene (TNFSF12) and continue into the second exon of this gene have been identified; such read-through transcripts are contained in GeneID 407977, TNFSF12-TNFSF13.
TNFSF13B	The protein encoded by this gene is a cytokine that belongs to the tumor necrosis factor (TNF) ligand family. This cytokine is a ligand for receptors TNFRSF13B/TACI, TNFRSF17/BCMA, and TNFRSF13C/BAFFR. This cytokine is expressed in B cell lineage cells, and acts as a potent B cell activator. It has been also shown to play an important role in the proliferation and differentiation of B cells. Alternatively spliced transcript variants encoding distinct isoforms have been identified.
TNFSF14	The protein encoded by this gene is a member of the tumor necrosis factor (TNF) ligand family. This protein is a ligand for TNFRSF14, which is a member of the tumor necrosis factor receptor superfamily, and which is also known as a herpesvirus entry mediator (HVEM). This protein may function as a costimulatory factor for the activation of lymphoid cells and as a deterrent to infection by herpesvirus. This protein has been shown to stimulate the proliferation of T cells, and trigger apoptosis of various tumor cells. This protein is also reported to prevent tumor necrosis factor alpha mediated apoptosis in primary hepatocyte. Two alternatively spliced transcript variant encoding distinct isoforms have been reported.
TNFSF4	This gene encodes a cytokine of the tumor necrosis factor (TNF) ligand family. The encoded protein functions in T cell antigen-presenting cell (APC) interactions and mediates adhesion of activated T cells to endothelial cells. Polymorphisms in this gene have been associated with Sjogren's syndrome and systemic lupus erythematosus. Alternative splicing results in multiple transcript variants.
TNIK	Wnt signaling plays important roles in carcinogenesis and embryonic development. The protein encoded by this gene is a serine/threonine kinase that functions as an activator of the Wnt signaling pathway. Mutations in this gene are associated with an autosomal recessive form of cognitive disability. Alternative splicing results in multiple transcript variants encoding different isoforms.
TNK1	The protein encoded by this gene belongs to the tyrosine protein kinase family. Tyrosine protein kinases are important regulators of intracellular signal transduction pathways, mediating cellular proliferation, survival, and development. This gene is highly expressed in fetal tissues and at lower levels in few adult tissues, thus may function in signaling pathways utilized broadly during fetal development, and more selectively in adult tissues. It plays a negative regulatory role in the Ras-Raf1-MAPK pathway, and knockout mice have been shown to develop spontaneous tumors, suggesting a role as a tumor suppressor gene. Alternatively spliced transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been found for this gene.
TNK2	This gene encodes a tyrosine kinase that binds Cdc42Hs in its GTP-bound form and inhibits both the intrinsic and GTPase-activating protein (GAP)-stimulated GTPase activity of Cdc42Hs. This binding is mediated by a unique sequence of 47 amino acids C-terminal to an SH3 domain. The protein may be involved in a regulatory mechanism that sustains the GTP-bound active form of Cdc42Hs and which is directly linked to a tyrosine phosphorylation signal transduction pathway. Several alternatively spliced transcript variants have been identified from this gene, but the full-length nature of only two transcript variants has been determined.
TNKS	Poly-ADP-ribosyltransferase involved in various processes such as Wnt signaling pathway, telomere length and vesicle trafficking .
TNKS2	Poly-ADP-ribosyltransferase involved in various processes such as Wnt signaling pathway, telomere length and vesicle trafficking .
TNNC2	Troponin (Tn), a key protein complex in the regulation of striated muscle contraction, is composed of 3 subunits. The Tn-I subunit inhibits actomyosin ATPase, the Tn-T subunit binds tropomyosin and Tn-C, while the Tn-C subunit binds calcium and overcomes the inhibitory action of the troponin complex on actin filaments. The protein encoded by this gene is the Tn-C subunit.
TNNI3	Troponin I (TnI), along with troponin T (TnT) and troponin C (TnC), is one of 3 subunits that form the troponin complex of the thin filaments of striated muscle. TnI is the inhibitory subunit; blocking actin-myosin interactions and thereby mediating striated muscle relaxation. The TnI subfamily contains three genes: TnI-skeletal-fast-twitch, TnI-skeletal-slow-twitch, and TnI-cardiac. This gene encodes the TnI-cardiac protein and is exclusively expressed in cardiac muscle tissues. Mutations in this gene cause familial hypertrophic cardiomyopathy type 7 (CMH7) and familial restrictive cardiomyopathy (RCM).
TNNI3K	This gene encodes a protein that belongs to the MAP kinase kinase kinase (MAPKKK) family of protein kinases. The protein contains ankyrin repeat, protein kinase and serine-rich domains and is thought to play a role in cardiac physiology.
TOP1	This gene encodes a DNA topoisomerase, an enzyme that controls and alters the topologic states of DNA during transcription. This enzyme catalyzes the transient breaking and rejoining of a single strand of DNA which allows the strands to pass through one another, thus altering the topology of DNA. This gene is localized to chromosome 20 and has pseudogenes which reside on chromosomes 1 and 22.
TOP2A	This gene encodes a DNA topoisomerase, an enzyme that controls and alters the topologic states of DNA during transcription. This nuclear enzyme is involved in processes such as chromosome condensation, chromatid separation, and the relief of torsional stress that occurs during DNA transcription and replication. It catalyzes the transient breaking and rejoining of two strands of duplex DNA which allows the strands to pass through one another, thus altering the topology of DNA. Two forms of this enzyme exist as likely products of a gene duplication event. The gene encoding this form, alpha, is localized to chromosome 17 and the beta gene is localized to chromosome 3. The gene encoding this enzyme functions as the target for several anticancer agents and a variety of mutations in this gene have been associated with the development of drug resistance. Reduced activity of this enzyme may also play a role in ataxia-telangiectasia.
TOP2B	This gene encodes a DNA topoisomerase, an enzyme that controls and alters the topologic states of DNA during transcription. This nuclear enzyme is involved in processes such as chromosome condensation, chromatid separation, and the relief of torsional stress that occurs during DNA transcription and replication. It catalyzes the transient breaking and rejoining of two strands of duplex DNA which allows the strands to pass through one another, thus altering the topology of DNA. Two forms of this enzyme exist as likely products of a gene duplication event. The gene encoding this form, beta, is localized to chromosome 3 and the alpha form is localized to chromosome 17. The gene encoding this enzyme functions as the target for several anticancer agents and a variety of mutations in this gene have been associated with the development of drug resistance. Reduced activity of this enzyme may also play a role in ataxia-telangiectasia. Alternative splicing results in multiple transcript variants.
TOPBP1	This gene encodes a binding protein which interacts with the C-terminal region of topoisomerase II beta. This interaction suggests a supportive role for this protein in the catalytic reactions of topoisomerase II beta through transient breakages of DNA strands.
TP53	This gene encodes a tumor suppressor protein containing transcriptional activation, DNA binding, and oligomerization domains. The encoded protein responds to diverse cellular stresses to regulate expression of target genes, thereby inducing cell cycle arrest, apoptosis, senescence, DNA repair, or changes in metabolism. Mutations in this gene are associated with a variety of human cancers, including hereditary cancers such as Li-Fraumeni syndrome. Alternative splicing of this gene and the use of alternate promoters result in multiple transcript variants and isoforms. Additional isoforms have also been shown to result from the use of alternate translation initiation codons from identical transcript variants (PMIDs: 12032546, 20937277).
TP53BP1	This gene encodes a protein that functions in the DNA double-strand break repair pathway choice, promoting non-homologous end joining (NHEJ) pathways, and limiting homologous recombination. This protein plays multiple roles in the DNA damage response, including promoting checkpoint signaling following DNA damage, acting as a scaffold for recruitment of DNA damage response proteins to damaged chromatin, and promoting NHEJ pathways by limiting end resection following a double-strand break. These roles are also important during V(D)J recombination, class switch recombination and at unprotected telomeres. Alternative splicing results in multiple transcript variants encoding different isoforms.
TP53RK	Component of the EKC/KEOPS complex that is required for the formation of a threonylcarbamoyl group on adenosine at position 37 (t(6)A37) in tRNAs that read codons beginning with adenine .
TPBG	This gene encodes a leucine-rich transmembrane glycoprotein that may be involved in cell adhesion. The encoded protein is an oncofetal antigen that is specific to trophoblast cells. In adults this protein is highly expressed in many tumor cells and is associated with poor clinical outcome in numerous cancers. Alternate splicing in the 5' UTR results in multiple transcript variants that encode the same protein.
TPH1	This gene encodes a member of the aromatic amino acid hydroxylase family. The encoded protein catalyzes the first and rate limiting step in the biosynthesis of serotonin, an important hormone and neurotransmitter. Mutations in this gene have been associated with an elevated risk for a variety of diseases and disorders, including schizophrenia, somatic anxiety, anger-related traits, bipolar disorder, suicidal behavior, addictions, and others.
TPH2	This gene encodes a member of the pterin-dependent aromatic acid hydroxylase family. The encoded protein catalyzes the first and rate limiting step in the biosynthesis of serotonin, an important hormone and neurotransmitter. Mutations in this gene may be associated with psychiatric diseases such as bipolar affective disorder and major depression.
TPI1	This gene encodes an enzyme, consisting of two identical proteins, which catalyzes the isomerization of glyceraldehydes 3-phosphate (G3P) and dihydroxy-acetone phosphate (DHAP) in glycolysis and gluconeogenesis. Mutations in this gene are associated with triosephosphate isomerase deficiency. Pseudogenes have been identified on chromosomes 1, 4, 6 and 7. Alternative splicing results in multiple transcript variants.
TPK1	The protein encoded by this gene functions as a homodimer and catalyzes the conversion of thiamine to thiamine pyrophosphate, a cofactor for some enzymes of the glycolytic and energy production pathways. Defects in this gene are a cause of thiamine metabolism dysfunction syndrome-5.
TPMT	This gene encodes the enzyme that metabolizes thiopurine drugs via S-adenosyl-L-methionine as the S-methyl donor and S-adenosyl-L-homocysteine as a byproduct. Thiopurine drugs such as 6-mercaptopurine are used as chemotherapeutic agents. Genetic polymorphisms that affect this enzymatic activity are correlated with variations in sensitivity and toxicity to such drugs within individuals, causing thiopurine S-methyltransferase deficiency. Related pseudogenes have been identified on chromosomes 3, 18 and X.
TPO	This gene encodes a membrane-bound glycoprotein. The encoded protein acts as an enzyme and plays a central role in thyroid gland function. The protein functions in the iodination of tyrosine residues in thyroglobulin and phenoxy-ester formation between pairs of iodinated tyrosines to generate the thyroid hormones, thyroxine and triiodothyronine. Mutations in this gene are associated with several disorders of thyroid hormonogenesis, including congenital hypothyroidism, congenital goiter, and thyroid hormone organification defect IIA. Multiple transcript variants encoding distinct isoforms have been identified for this gene, but the full-length nature of some variants has not been determined.
TPP2	This gene encodes a mammalian peptidase that, at neutral pH, removes tripeptides from the N terminus of longer peptides. The protein has a specialized function that is essential for some MHC class I antigen presentation. The protein is a high molecular mass serine exopeptidase; the amino acid sequence surrounding the serine residue at the active site is similar to the peptidases of the subtilisin class rather than the trypsin class.
TPSAB1	Tryptases comprise a family of trypsin-like serine proteases, the peptidase family S1. Tryptases are enzymatically active only as heparin-stabilized tetramers, and they are resistant to all known endogenous proteinase inhibitors. Several tryptase genes are clustered on chromosome 16p13.3. These genes are characterized by several distinct features. They have a highly conserved 3' UTR and contain tandem repeat sequences at the 5' flank and 3' UTR which are thought to play a role in regulation of the mRNA stability. These genes have an intron immediately upstream of the initiator Met codon, which separates the site of transcription initiation from protein coding sequence. This feature is characteristic of tryptases but is unusual in other genes. The alleles of this gene exhibit an unusual amount of sequence variation, such that the alleles were once thought to represent two separate genes, alpha and beta 1. Beta tryptases appear to be the main isoenzymes expressed in mast cells; whereas in basophils, alpha tryptases predominate. Tryptases have been implicated as mediators in the pathogenesis of asthma and other allergic and inflammatory disorders.
TPST2	The protein encoded by this gene catalyzes the O-sulfation of tyrosine residues within acidic regions of proteins. The encoded protein is a type II integral membrane protein found in the Golgi body. Alternative splicing produces multiple transcript variants encoding distinct isoforms.
TPX2	Spindle assembly factor required for normal assembly of mitotic spindles. Required for normal assembly of microtubules during apoptosis. Required for chromatin and/or kinetochore dependent microtubule nucleation. Mediates AURKA localization to spindle microtubules .
TRAF6	The protein encoded by this gene is a member of the TNF receptor associated factor (TRAF) protein family. TRAF proteins are associated with, and mediate signal transduction from, members of the TNF receptor superfamily. This protein mediates signaling from members of the TNF receptor superfamily as well as the Toll/IL-1 family. Signals from receptors such as CD40, TNFSF11/RANCE and IL-1 have been shown to be mediated by this protein. This protein also interacts with various protein kinases including IRAK1/IRAK, SRC and PKCzeta, which provides a link between distinct signaling pathways. This protein functions as a signal transducer in the NF-kappaB pathway that activates IkappaB kinase (IKK) in response to proinflammatory cytokines. The interaction of this protein with UBE2N/UBC13, and UBE2V1/UEV1A, which are ubiquitin conjugating enzymes catalyzing the formation of polyubiquitin chains, has been found to be required for IKK activation by this protein. This protein also interacts with the transforming growth factor (TGF) beta receptor complex and is required for Smad-independent activation of the JNK and p38 kinases. This protein has an amino terminal RING domain which is followed by four zinc-finger motifs, a central coiled-coil region and a highly conserved carboxyl terminal domain, known as the TRAF-C domain. Two alternatively spliced transcript variants, encoding an identical protein, have been reported.
TRAP1	This gene encodes a mitochondrial chaperone protein that is member of the heat shock protein 90 (HSP90) family. The encoded protein has ATPase activity and interacts with tumor necrosis factor type I. This protein may function in regulating cellular stress responses. Alternate splicing results in multiple transcript variants.
TREM1	This gene encodes a receptor belonging to the Ig superfamily that is expressed on myeloid cells. This protein amplifies neutrophil and monocyte-mediated inflammatory responses triggered by bacterial and fungal infections by stimulating release of pro-inflammatory chemokines and cytokines, as well as increased surface expression of cell activation markers. Alternatively spliced transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been noted for this gene.
TRHDE	This gene encodes a member of the peptidase M1 family. The encoded protein is an extracellular peptidase that specifically cleaves and inactivates the neuropeptide thyrotropin-releasing hormone.
TRHR	This gene encodes a G protein-coupled receptor for thyrotropin-releasing hormone (TRH). Upon binding to TRH, this receptor activates the inositol phospholipid-calcium-protein kinase C transduction pathway. Mutations in this gene have been associated with generalized thyrotropin-releasing hormone resistance.
TRIM24	The protein encoded by this gene mediates transcriptional control by interaction with the activation function 2 (AF2) region of several nuclear receptors, including the estrogen, retinoic acid, and vitamin D3 receptors. The protein localizes to nuclear bodies and is thought to associate with chromatin and heterochromatin-associated factors. The protein is a member of the tripartite motif (TRIM) family. The TRIM motif includes three zinc-binding domains
TRIM28	The protein encoded by this gene mediates transcriptional control by interaction with the Kruppel-associated box repression domain found in many transcription factors. The protein localizes to the nucleus and is thought to associate with specific chromatin regions. The protein is a member of the tripartite motif family. This tripartite motif includes three zinc-binding domains, a RING, a B-box type 1 and a B-box type 2, and a coiled-coil region.
TRIM33	The protein encoded by this gene is thought to be a transcriptional corepressor. However, molecules that interact with this protein have not yet been identified. The protein is a member of the tripartite motif family. This motif includes three zinc-binding domains, a RING, a B-box type 1 and a B-box type 2, and a coiled-coil region. Three alternatively spliced transcript variants for this gene have been described, however, the full-length nature of one variant has not been determined.
TRPA1	The structure of the protein encoded by this gene is highly related to both the protein ankyrin and transmembrane proteins.  The specific function of this protein has not yet been determined; however, studies indicate the function may involve a role in signal transduction and growth control.
TRPC3	The protein encoded by this gene is a membrane protein that can form a non-selective channel permeable to calcium and other cations. The encoded protein appears to be induced to form channels by a receptor tyrosine kinase-activated phosphatidylinositol second messenger system and also by depletion of intracellular calcium stores. Two transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been found for this gene.
TRPC5	This gene belongs to the transient receptor family. It encodes one of the seven mammalian TRPC (transient receptor potential channel) proteins. The encoded protein is a multi-pass membrane protein and is thought to form a receptor-activated non-selective calcium permeant cation channel. The protein is active alone or as a heteromultimeric assembly with TRPC1, TRPC3, and TRPC4. It also interacts with multiple proteins including calmodulin, CABP1, enkurin, Na(+)-H+ exchange regulatory factor (NHERF ), interferon-induced GTP-binding protein (MX1), ring finger protein 24 (RNF24), and SEC14 domain and spectrin repeat-containing protein 1 (SESTD1).
TRPC6	The protein encoded by this gene forms a receptor-activated calcium channel in the cell membrane. The channel is activated by diacylglycerol and is thought to be under the control of a phosphatidylinositol second messenger system. Activation of this channel occurs independently of protein kinase C and is not triggered by low levels of intracellular calcium. Defects in this gene are a cause of focal segmental glomerulosclerosis 2 (FSGS2).
TRPM2	The protein encoded by this gene forms a tetrameric cation channel that is permeable to calcium, sodium, and potassium and is regulated by free intracellular ADP-ribose. The encoded protein is activated by oxidative stress and confers susceptibility to cell death. Alternative splicing results in multiple transcript variants encoding distinct protein isoforms. Additional transcript variants of this gene have been described, but their full-length nature is not known.
TRPM4	The protein encoded by this gene is a calcium-activated nonselective ion channel that mediates transport of monovalent cations across membranes, thereby depolarizing the membrane. The activity of the encoded protein increases with increasing intracellular calcium concentration, but this channel does not transport calcium.
TRPM5	This gene encodes a member of the transient receptor potential (TRP) protein family, which is a diverse group of proteins with structural features typical of ion channels. This protein plays an important role in taste transduction, and has characteristics of a calcium-activated, non-selective cation channel that carries Na+, K+, and Cs+ ions equally well, but not Ca(2+) ions. It is activated by lower concentrations of intracellular Ca(2+), and inhibited by higher concentrations. It is also a highly temperature-sensitive, heat activated channel showing a steep increase of inward currents at temperatures between 15 and 35 degrees Celsius. This gene is located within the Beckwith-Wiedemann syndrome critical region-1 on chromosome 11p15.5, and has been shown to be imprinted, with exclusive expression from the paternal allele.
TRPM6	This gene is predominantly expressed in the kidney and colon, and encodes a protein containing an ion channel domain and a protein kinase domain. It is crucial for magnesium homeostasis, and plays an essential role in epithelial magnesium transport and in the active magnesium absorption in the gut and kidney. Mutations in this gene are associated with hypomagnesemia with secondary hypocalcemia. Alternatively spliced transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been noted for this gene.
TRPM7	This gene belongs to the melastatin subfamily of transient receptor potential family of ion channels. The protein encoded by this gene is both an ion channel and a serine/threonine protein kinase. The kinase activity is essential for the ion channel function, which serves to increase intracellular calcium levels and to help regulate magnesium ion homeostasis. The encoded protein is involved in cytoskeletal organization, cell adhesion, cell migration and organogenesis. Defects in this gene are a cause of amyotrophic lateral sclerosis-parkinsonism/dementia complex of Guam. The gene may also be associated with defects of cardiac function.
TRPM8	Receptor-activated non-selective cation channel involved in detection of sensations such as coolness, by being activated by cold temperature below 25 degrees Celsius. Activated by icilin, eucalyptol, menthol, cold and modulation of intracellular pH. Involved in menthol sensation. Permeable for monovalent cations sodium, potassium, and cesium and divalent cation calcium. Temperature sensing is tightly linked to voltage-dependent gating. Activated upon depolarization, changes in temperature resulting in graded shifts of its voltage-dependent activation curves. The chemical agonist menthol functions as a gating modifier, shifting activation curves towards physiological membrane potentials. Temperature sensitivity arises from a tenfold difference in the activation energies associated with voltage-dependent opening and closing. In prostate cancer cells, shows strong inward rectification and high calcium selectivity in contrast to its behavior in normal cells which is characterized by outward rectification and poor cationic selectivity. Plays a role in prostate cancer cell migration . Isoform 2 and isoform 3 negatively regulate menthol- and cold-induced channel activity by stabilizing the closed state of the channel.
TRPV1	Capsaicin, the main pungent ingredient in hot chili peppers, elicits a sensation of burning pain by selectively activating sensory neurons that convey information about noxious stimuli to the central nervous system. The protein encoded by this gene is a receptor for capsaicin and is a non-selective cation channel that is structurally related to members of the TRP family of ion channels. This receptor is also activated by increases in temperature in the noxious range, suggesting that it functions as a transducer of painful thermal stimuli in vivo. Four transcript variants encoding the same protein, but with different 5' UTR sequence, have been described for this gene.
TRPV2	This gene encodes an ion channel that is activated by high temperatures above 52 degrees Celsius. The protein may be involved in transduction of high-temperature heat responses in sensory ganglia. It is thought that in other tissues the channel may be activated by stimuli other than heat.
TRPV3	This gene product belongs to a family of nonselective cation channels that function in a variety of processes, including temperature sensation and vasoregulation. The thermosensitive members of this family are expressed in subsets of sensory neurons that terminate in the skin, and are activated at distinct physiological temperatures. This channel is activated at temperatures between 22 and 40 degrees C. This gene lies in close proximity to another family member gene on chromosome 17, and the two encoded proteins are thought to associate with each other to form heteromeric channels. Multiple transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been found for this gene.
TRPV4	This gene encodes a member of the OSM9-like transient receptor potential channel (OTRPC) subfamily in the transient receptor potential (TRP) superfamily of ion channels. The encoded protein is a Ca2+-permeable, nonselective cation channel that is thought to be involved in the regulation of systemic osmotic pressure. Mutations in this gene are the cause of spondylometaphyseal and metatropic dysplasia and hereditary motor and sensory neuropathy type IIC. Multiple transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been found for this gene.
TRPV6	This gene encodes a member of a family of multipass membrane proteins that functions as calcium channels. The encoded protein contains N-terminal ankyrin repeats, which are required for channel assembly and regulation. Translation initiation for this protein occurs at a non-AUG start codon that is decoded as methionine. This gene is situated next to a closely related gene for transient receptor potential cation channel subfamily V member 5 (TRPV5). This locus has experienced positive selection in non-African populations, resulting in several non-synonymous codon differences among individuals of different genetic backgrounds.
TSG101	The protein encoded by this gene belongs to a group of apparently inactive homologs of ubiquitin-conjugating enzymes. The gene product contains a coiled-coil domain that interacts with stathmin, a cytosolic phosphoprotein implicated in tumorigenesis. The protein may play a role in cell growth and differentiation and act as a negative growth regulator. In vitro steady-state expression of this tumor susceptibility gene appears to be important for maintenance of genomic stability and cell cycle regulation. Mutations and alternative splicing in this gene occur in high frequency in breast cancer and suggest that defects occur during breast cancer tumorigenesis and/or progression.
TSHR	The protein encoded by this gene is a membrane protein and a major controller of thyroid cell metabolism. The encoded protein is a receptor for thyrothropin and thyrostimulin, and its activity is mediated by adenylate cyclase. Defects in this gene are a cause of several types of hyperthyroidism. Three transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been found for this gene.
TSLP	This gene encodes a hemopoietic cytokine proposed to signal through a heterodimeric receptor complex composed of the thymic stromal lymphopoietin receptor and the IL-7R alpha chain. It mainly impacts myeloid cells and induces the release of T cell-attracting chemokines from monocytes and enhances the maturation of CD11c(+) dendritic cells. The protein promotes T helper type 2 (TH2) cell responses that are associated with immunity in various inflammatory diseases, including asthma, allergic inflammation and chronic obstructive pulmonary disease. The protein is therefore considered a potential therapeutic target for the treatment of such diseases. Alternative splicing of this gene results in multiple transcript variants.
TSPO	Present mainly in the mitochondrial compartment of peripheral tissues, the protein encoded by this gene interacts with some benzodiazepines and has different affinities than its endogenous counterpart. The protein is a key factor in the flow of cholesterol into mitochondria to permit the initiation of steroid hormone synthesis. Alternatively spliced transcript variants have been reported; one of the variants lacks an internal exon and is considered non-coding, and the other variants encode the same protein.
TSSK1B	TSSK1 belongs to a family of serine/threonine kinases highly expressed in testis (Hao et al., 2004
TSSK2	TSSK2 belongs to a family of serine/threonine kinases highly expressed in testis (Hao et al., 2004
TSSK3	This gene encodes a kinase expressed exclusively in the testis that is thought to play a role in either germ cell differentiation or mature sperm function.
TTBK1	Summary:This gene belongs to the casein kinase 1 superfamily. The encoded protein is a neuron-specific, serine/threonine and tyrosine kinase, which regulates phosphorylation of tau, a protein that associates with microtubule assemblies and stabilizes them. Genetic variants in this gene are associated with Alzheimer's disease.
TTBK2	This gene encodes a serine-threonine kinase that putatively phosphorylates tau and tubulin proteins. Mutations in this gene cause spinocerebellar ataxia type 11 (SCA11); a neurodegenerative disease characterized by progressive ataxia and atrophy of the cerebellum and brainstem.
TTK	This gene encodes a dual specificity protein kinase with the ability to phosphorylate tyrosine, serine and threonine. Associated with cell proliferation, this protein is essential for chromosome alignment at the centromere during mitosis and is required for centrosome duplication. It has been found to be a critical mitotic checkpoint protein for accurate segregation of chromosomes during mitosis. Tumorigenesis may occur when this protein fails to degrade and produces excess centrosomes resulting in aberrant mitotic spindles. Alternative splicing results in multiple transcript variants.
TTL	TTL is a cytosolic enzyme involved in the posttranslational modification of alpha-tubulin (see MIM 602529). Alpha-tubulin within assembled microtubules is detyrosinated over time at the C terminus. After microtubule disassembly, TTL restores the tyrosine residues and consequently participates in a cycle of tubulin detyrosination and tyrosination (Erck et al., 2003
TTPA	This gene encodes a soluble protein that binds alpha-trocopherol, a form of vitamin E, with high selectivity and affinity. This protein plays an important role in regulating vitamin E levels in the body by transporting vitamin E between membrane vesicles and facilitating the secretion of vitamin E from hepatocytes to circulating lipoproteins. Mutations in this gene cause hereditary vitamin E deficiency (ataxia with vitamin E deficiency, AVED) and retinitis pigmentosa.
TTR	This gene encodes one of the three prealbumins, which include alpha-1-antitrypsin, transthyretin and orosomucoid. The encoded protein, transthyretin, is a homo-tetrameric carrier protein, which transports thyroid hormones in the plasma and cerebrospinal fluid. It is also involved in the transport of retinol (vitamin A) in the plasma by associating with retinol-binding protein. The protein may also be involved in other intracellular processes including proteolysis, nerve regeneration, autophagy and glucose homeostasis. Mutations in this gene are associated with amyloid deposition, predominantly affecting peripheral nerves or the heart, while a small percentage of the gene mutations are non-amyloidogenic. The mutations are implicated in the etiology of several diseases, including amyloidotic polyneuropathy, euthyroid hyperthyroxinaemia, amyloidotic vitreous opacities, cardiomyopathy, oculoleptomeningeal amyloidosis, meningocerebrovascular amyloidosis and carpal tunnel syndrome.
TUBA1A	Microtubules of the eukaryotic cytoskeleton perform essential and diverse functions and are composed of a heterodimer of alpha and beta tubulins. The genes encoding these microtubule constituents belong to the tubulin superfamily, which is composed of six distinct families. Genes from the alpha, beta and gamma tubulin families are found in all eukaryotes. The alpha and beta tubulins represent the major components of microtubules, while gamma tubulin plays a critical role in the nucleation of microtubule assembly. There are multiple alpha and beta tubulin genes, which are highly conserved among species. This gene encodes alpha tubulin and is highly similar to the mouse and rat Tuba1 genes. Northern blot studies have shown that the gene expression is predominantly found in morphologically differentiated neurologic cells. This gene is one of three alpha-tubulin genes in a cluster on chromosome 12q. Mutations in this gene cause lissencephaly type 3 (LIS3)
TUBA1B	Tubulin is the major constituent of microtubules. It binds two moles of GTP, one at an exchangeable site on the beta chain and one at a non-exchangeable site on the alpha chain.
TUBA1C	Tubulin is the major constituent of microtubules. It binds two moles of GTP, one at an exchangeable site on the beta chain and one at a non-exchangeable site on the alpha chain.
TUBB	This gene encodes a beta tubulin protein. This protein forms a dimer with alpha tubulin and acts as a structural component of microtubules. Mutations in this gene cause cortical dysplasia, complex, with other brain malformations 6. Alternative splicing results in multiple splice variants. There are multiple pseudogenes for this gene on chromosomes 1, 6, 7, 8, 9, and 13.
TUBB1	This gene encodes a member of the beta tubulin protein family. Beta tubulins are one of two core protein families (alpha and beta tubulins) that heterodimerize and assemble to form microtubules. This protein is specifically expressed in platelets and megakaryocytes and may be involved in proplatelet production and platelet release. A mutations in this gene is associated with autosomal dominant macrothrombocytopenia. Two pseudogenes of this gene are found on chromosome Y.
TUBB3	This gene encodes a class III member of the beta tubulin protein family. Beta tubulins are one of two core protein families (alpha and beta tubulins) that heterodimerize and assemble to form microtubules. This protein is primarily expressed in neurons and may be involved in neurogenesis and axon guidance and maintenance. Mutations in this gene are the cause of congenital fibrosis of the extraocular muscles type 3. Alternate splicing results in multiple transcript variants. A pseudogene of this gene is found on chromosome 6.
TUBB4A	This gene encodes a member of the beta tubulin family. Beta tubulins are one of two core protein families (alpha and beta tubulins) that heterodimerize and assemble to form microtubules. Mutations in this gene cause hypomyelinating leukodystrophy-6 and autosomal dominant torsion dystonia-4. Alternate splicing results in multiple transcript variants encoding different isoforms. A pseudogene of this gene is found on chromosome X.
TUBB4B	Tubulin is the major constituent of microtubules. It binds two moles of GTP, one at an exchangeable site on the beta chain and one at a non-exchangeable site on the alpha chain.
TXK	Non-receptor tyrosine kinase that plays a redundant role with ITK in regulation of the adaptive immune response. Regulates the development, function and differentiation of conventional T-cells and nonconventional NKT-cells. When antigen presenting cells (APC) activate T-cell receptor (TCR), a series of phosphorylation lead to the recruitment of TXK to the cell membrane, where it is phosphorylated at Tyr-420. Phosphorylation leads to TXK full activation. Contributes also to signaling from many receptors and participates in multiple downstream pathways, including regulation of the actin cytoskeleton. Like ITK, can phosphorylate PLCG1, leading to its localization in lipid rafts and activation, followed by subsequent cleavage of its substrates. In turn, the endoplasmic reticulum releases calcium in the cytoplasm and the nuclear activator of activated T-cells (NFAT) translocates into the nucleus to perform its transcriptional duty. With PARP1 and EEF1A1, TXK forms a complex that acts as a T-helper 1 (Th1) cell-specific transcription factor and binds the promoter of IFNG to directly regulate its transcription, and is thus involved importantly in Th1 cytokine production. Phosphorylates both PARP1 and EEF1A1. Phosphorylates also key sites in LCP2 leading to the up-regulation of Th1 preferred cytokine IL-2. Phosphorylates 'Tyr-201' of CTLA4 which leads to the association of PI-3 kinase with the CTLA4 receptor.
TXN	The protein encoded by this gene acts as a homodimer and is involved in many redox reactions. The encoded protein is active in the reversible S-nitrosylation of cysteines in certain proteins, which is part of the response to intracellular nitric oxide. This protein is found in the cytoplasm. Two transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been found for this gene.
TXN2	This nuclear gene encodes a mitochondrial member of the thioredoxin family, a group of small multifunctional redox-active proteins. The encoded protein may play important roles in the regulation of the mitochondrial membrane potential and in protection against oxidant-induced apoptosis.
TXNRD1	The protein encoded by this gene belongs to the pyridine nucleotide-disulfide oxidoreductase family, and is a member of the thioredoxin (Trx) system. Three thioredoxin reductase (TrxR) isozymes are found in mammals. TrxRs are selenocysteine-containing flavoenzymes, which reduce thioredoxins, as well as other substrates, and play a key role in redox homoeostasis. This gene encodes an ubiquitously expressed, cytosolic form of TrxR, which functions as a homodimer containing FAD, and selenocysteine (Sec) at the active site. Sec is encoded by UGA codon that normally signals translation termination. The 3' UTRs of selenoprotein mRNAs contain a conserved stem-loop structure, the Sec insertion sequence (SECIS) element, which is necessary for the recognition of UGA as a Sec codon rather than as a stop signal. Alternative splicing, primarily at the 5' end, results in transcript variants encoding same or different isoforms, including a glutaredoxin-containing isoform that is predominantly expressed in testis.
TXNRD2	The protein encoded by this gene belongs to the pyridine nucleotide-disulfide oxidoreductase family, and is a member of the thioredoxin (Trx) system. Three thioredoxin reductase (TrxR) isozymes are found in mammals. TrxRs are selenocysteine-containing flavoenzymes, which reduce thioredoxins, as well as other substrates, and play a key role in redox homoeostasis. This gene encodes a mitochondrial form important for scavenging reactive oxygen species in mitochondria. It functions as a homodimer containing FAD, and selenocysteine (Sec) at the active site. Sec is encoded by UGA codon that normally signals translation termination. The 3' UTRs of selenoprotein mRNAs contain a conserved stem-loop structure, the Sec insertion sequence (SECIS) element, which is necessary for the recognition of UGA as a Sec codon rather than as a stop signal. Alternatively spliced transcript variants encoding different isoforms, including a few localized in the cytosol and some lacking the C-terminal Sec residue, have been found for this gene.
TYK2	This gene encodes a member of the tyrosine kinase and, more specifically, the Janus kinases (JAKs) protein families. This protein associates with the cytoplasmic domain of type I and type II cytokine receptors and promulgate cytokine signals by phosphorylating receptor subunits. It is also component of both the type I and type III interferon signaling pathways. As such, it may play a role in anti-viral immunity. A mutation in this gene has been associated with hyperimmunoglobulin E syndrome (HIES)
TYMP	This gene encodes an angiogenic factor which promotes angiogenesis in vivo and stimulates the in vitro growth of a variety of endothelial cells. It has a highly restricted target cell specificity acting only on endothelial cells. Mutations in this gene have been associated with mitochondrial neurogastrointestinal encephalomyopathy. Multiple alternatively spliced transcript variants have been identified.
TYMS	Thymidylate synthase catalyzes the methylation of deoxyuridylate to deoxythymidylate using, 10-methylenetetrahydrofolate (methylene-THF) as a cofactor. This function maintains the dTMP (thymidine-5-prime monophosphate) pool critical for DNA replication and repair. The enzyme has been of interest as a target for cancer chemotherapeutic agents. It is considered to be the primary site of action for 5-fluorouracil, 5-fluoro-2-prime-deoxyuridine, and some folate analogs. Expression of this gene and that of a naturally occurring antisense transcript, mitochondrial enolase superfamily member 1 (GeneID:55556), vary inversely when cell-growth progresses from late-log to plateau phase. Polymorphisms in this gene may be associated with etiology of neoplasia, including breast cancer, and response to chemotherapy.
TYR	The enzyme encoded by this gene catalyzes the first 2 steps, and at least 1 subsequent step, in the conversion of tyrosine to melanin. The enzyme has both tyrosine hydroxylase and dopa oxidase catalytic activities, and requires copper for function. Mutations in this gene result in oculocutaneous albinism, and nonpathologic polymorphisms result in skin pigmentation variation. The human genome contains a pseudogene similar to the 3' half of this gene.
TYRO3	The gene is part of a 3-member transmembrane receptor kinase receptor family with a processed pseudogene distal on chromosome 15. The encoded protein is activated by the products of the growth arrest-specific gene 6 and protein S genes and is involved in controlling cell survival and proliferation, spermatogenesis, immunoregulation and phagocytosis. The encoded protein has also been identified as a cell entry factor for Ebola and Marburg viruses.
TYRP1	This gene encodes a melanosomal enzyme that belongs to the tyrosinase family and plays an important role in the melanin biosynthetic pathway. Defects in this gene are the cause of rufous oculocutaneous albinism and oculocutaneous albinism type III.
UBA1	The protein encoded by this gene catalyzes the first step in ubiquitin conjugation to mark cellular proteins for degradation. This gene complements an X-linked mouse temperature-sensitive defect in DNA synthesis, and thus may function in DNA repair. It is part of a gene cluster on chromosome Xp11.23. Alternatively spliced transcript variants that encode the same protein have been described.
UBA3	The modification of proteins with ubiquitin is an important cellular mechanism for targeting abnormal or short-lived proteins for degradation. Ubiquitination involves at least three classes of enzymes: ubiquitin-activating enzymes, or E1s, ubiquitin-conjugating enzymes, or E2s, and ubiquitin-protein ligases, or E3s. This gene encodes a member of the E1 ubiquitin-activating enzyme family. The encoded enzyme associates with AppBp1, an amyloid beta precursor protein binding protein, to form a heterodimer, and then the enzyme complex activates NEDD8, a ubiquitin-like protein, which regulates cell division, signaling and embryogenesis. Multiple alternatively spliced transcript variants encoding distinct isoforms have been found for this gene.
UBA5	This gene encodes a member of the E1-like ubiquitin-activating enzyme family. This protein activates ubiquitin-fold modifier 1, a ubiquitin-like post-translational modifier protein, via the formation of a high-energy thioester bond. Alternative splicing results in multiple transcript variants. A pseudogene of this gene has been identified on chromosome 1.
UBA6	Modification of proteins with ubiquitin (UBB; MIM 191339) or ubiquitin-like proteins controls many signaling networks and requires a ubiquitin-activating enzyme (E1), a ubiquitin conjugating enzyme (E2), and a ubiquitin protein ligase (E3). UBE1L2 is an E1 enzyme that initiates the activation and conjugation of ubiquitin-like proteins (Jin et al., 2007
UBA7	The modification of proteins with ubiquitin is an important cellular mechanism for targeting abnormal or short-lived proteins for degradation. Ubiquitination involves at least three classes of enzymes: ubiquitin-activating enzymes, or E1s, ubiquitin-conjugating enzymes, or E2s, and ubiquitin-protein ligases, or E3s. This gene encodes a member of the E1 ubiquitin-activating enzyme family. The encoded enzyme is a retinoid target that triggers promyelocytic leukemia (PML)/retinoic acid receptor alpha (RARalpha) degradation and apoptosis in acute promyelocytic leukemia, where it is involved in the conjugation of the ubiquitin-like interferon-stimulated gene 15 protein.
UBE2B	The modification of proteins with ubiquitin is an important cellular mechanism for targeting abnormal or short-lived proteins for degradation. Ubiquitination involves at least three classes of enzymes: ubiquitin-activating enzymes, or E1s, ubiquitin-conjugating enzymes, or E2s, and ubiquitin-protein ligases, or E3s. This gene encodes a member of the E2 ubiquitin-conjugating enzyme family. This enzyme is required for post-replicative DNA damage repair. Its protein sequence is 100% identical to the mouse, rat, and rabbit homologs, which indicates that this enzyme is highly conserved in eukaryotic evolution.
UBE2I	The modification of proteins with ubiquitin is an important cellular mechanism for targeting abnormal or short-lived proteins for degradation. Ubiquitination involves at least three classes of enzymes: ubiquitin-activating enzymes, or E1s, ubiquitin-conjugating enzymes, or E2s, and ubiquitin-protein ligases, or E3s. This gene encodes a member of the E2 ubiquitin-conjugating enzyme family. Four alternatively spliced transcript variants encoding the same protein have been found for this gene.
UBE2N	The modification of proteins with ubiquitin is an important cellular mechanism for targeting abnormal or short-lived proteins for degradation. Ubiquitination involves at least three classes of enzymes: ubiquitin-activating enzymes, or E1s, ubiquitin-conjugating enzymes, or E2s, and ubiquitin-protein ligases, or E3s. This gene encodes a member of the E2 ubiquitin-conjugating enzyme family. Studies in mouse suggest that this protein plays a role in DNA postreplication repair.
UBLCP1	Dephosphorylates 26S nuclear proteasomes, thereby decreasing their proteolytic activity. The dephosphorylation may prevent assembly of the core and regulatory particles (CP and RP) into mature 26S proteasome.
UCHL1	The protein encoded by this gene belongs to the peptidase C12 family. This enzyme is a thiol protease that hydrolyzes a peptide bond at the C-terminal glycine of ubiquitin. This gene is specifically expressed in the neurons and in cells of the diffuse neuroendocrine system. Mutations in this gene may be associated with Parkinson disease.
UCHL3	The protein encoded by this gene is a member of the deubiquitinating enzyme family. Members of this family are proteases that catalyze the removal of ubiquitin from polypeptides and are divided into five classes, depending on the mechanism of catalysis. This protein may hydrolyze the ubiquitinyl-N-epsilon amide bond of ubiquitinated proteins to regenerate ubiquitin for another catalytic cycle. Alternative splicing results in multiple transcript variants that encode different protein isoforms.
UCHL5	Protease that specifically cleaves 'Lys-48'-linked polyubiquitin chains. Deubiquitinating enzyme associated with the 19S regulatory subunit of the 26S proteasome. Putative regulatory component of the INO80 complex; however is inactive in the INO80 complex and is activated by a transient interaction of the INO80 complex with the proteasome via ADRM1.
UCK1	This gene encodes a uridine-cytidine kinase that catalyzes the phosphorylation of uridine and cytidine to uridine monophosphate (UMP) and cytidine monophosphate (CMP) but not the phosphorylation of deoxyribonucleosides or purine ribonucleosides. This enzyme can also phosphorylate uridine and cytidine analogs and uses both ATP and GTP as a phosphate donor. Alternative splicing results in multiple splice variants encoding distinct isoforms.
UCK2	This gene encodes a pyrimidine ribonucleoside kinase. The encoded protein (EC 2.7.1.48) catalyzes phosphorylation of uridine and cytidine to uridine monophosphate (UMP) and cytidine monophosphate (CMP), respectively.
UGCG	This gene encodes an enzyme that catalyzes the first glycosylation step in the biosynthesis of glycosphingolipids, which are membrane components containing lipid and sugar moieties. The product of this reaction is glucosylceramide, which is the core structure of many glycosphingolipids.
UGT1A1	This gene encodes a UDP-glucuronosyltransferase, an enzyme of the glucuronidation pathway that transforms small lipophilic molecules, such as steroids, bilirubin, hormones, and drugs, into water-soluble, excretable metabolites. This gene is part of a complex locus that encodes several UDP-glucuronosyltransferases. The locus includes thirteen unique alternate first exons followed by four common exons. Four of the alternate first exons are considered pseudogenes. Each of the remaining nine 5' exons may be spliced to the four common exons, resulting in nine proteins with different N-termini and identical C-termini. Each first exon encodes the substrate binding site, and is regulated by its own promoter. The preferred substrate of this enzyme is bilirubin, although it also has moderate activity with simple phenols, flavones, and C18 steroids. Mutations in this gene result in Crigler-Najjar syndromes types I and II and in Gilbert syndrome.
UGT1A10	This gene encodes a UDP-glucuronosyltransferase, an enzyme of the glucuronidation pathway that transforms small lipophilic molecules, such as steroids, bilirubin, hormones, and drugs, into water-soluble, excretable metabolites. This gene is part of a complex locus that encodes several UDP-glucuronosyltransferases. The locus includes thirteen unique alternate first exons followed by four common exons. Four of the alternate first exons are considered pseudogenes. Each of the remaining nine 5' exons may be spliced to the four common exons, resulting in nine proteins with different N-termini and identical C-termini. Each first exon encodes the substrate binding site, and is regulated by its own promoter. The enzyme encoded by this gene has glucuronidase activity on mycophenolic acid, coumarins, and quinolines.
UGT1A3	This gene encodes a UDP-glucuronosyltransferase, an enzyme of the glucuronidation pathway that transforms small lipophilic molecules, such as steroids, bilirubin, hormones, and drugs, into water-soluble, excretable metabolites. This gene is part of a complex locus that encodes several UDP-glucuronosyltransferases. The locus includes thirteen unique alternate first exons followed by four common exons. Four of the alternate first exons are considered pseudogenes. Each of the remaining nine 5' exons may be spliced to the four common exons, resulting in nine proteins with different N-termini and identical C-termini. Each first exon encodes the substrate binding site, and is regulated by its own promoter. Substrates of this enzyme include estrone, 2-hydroxyestrone, and metabolites of benzo alpha-pyrene.
UGT1A4	This gene encodes a UDP-glucuronosyltransferase, an enzyme of the glucuronidation pathway that transforms small lipophilic molecules, such as steroids, bilirubin, hormones, and drugs, into water-soluble, excretable metabolites. This gene is part of a complex locus that encodes several UDP-glucuronosyltransferases. The locus includes thirteen unique alternate first exons followed by four common exons. Four of the alternate first exons are considered pseudogenes. Each of the remaining nine 5' exons may be spliced to the four common exons, resulting in nine proteins with different N-termini and identical C-termini. Each first exon encodes the substrate binding site, and is regulated by its own promoter. This enzyme has some glucuronidase activity towards bilirubin, although is is more active on amines, steroids, and sapogenins.
UGT1A6	This gene encodes a UDP-glucuronosyltransferase, an enzyme of the glucuronidation pathway that transforms small lipophilic molecules, such as steroids, bilirubin, hormones, and drugs, into water-soluble, excretable metabolites. This gene is part of a complex locus that encodes several UDP-glucuronosyltransferases. The locus includes thirteen unique alternate first exons followed by four common exons. Four of the alternate first exons are considered pseudogenes. Each of the remaining nine 5' exons may be spliced to the four common exons, resulting in nine proteins with different N-termini and identical C-termini. Each first exon encodes the substrate binding site, and is regulated by its own promoter. The enzyme encoded by this gene is active on phenolic and planar compounds. Alternative splicing in the unique 5' end of this gene results in two transcript variants.
UGT1A7	This gene encodes a UDP-glucuronosyltransferase, an enzyme of the glucuronidation pathway that transforms small lipophilic molecules, such as steroids, bilirubin, hormones, and drugs, into water-soluble, excretable metabolites. This gene is part of a complex locus that encodes several UDP-glucuronosyltransferases. The locus includes thirteen unique alternate first exons followed by four common exons. Four of the alternate first exons are considered pseudogenes. Each of the remaining nine 5' exons may be spliced to the four common exons, resulting in nine proteins with different N-termini and identical C-termini. Each first exon encodes the substrate binding site, and is regulated by its own promoter. The enzyme encoded by this gene has moderate glucuronidase activity with phenols.
UGT1A9	This gene encodes a UDP-glucuronosyltransferase, an enzyme of the glucuronidation pathway that transforms small lipophilic molecules, such as steroids, bilirubin, hormones, and drugs, into water-soluble, excretable metabolites. This gene is part of a complex locus that encodes several UDP-glucuronosyltransferases. The locus includes thirteen unique alternate first exons followed by four common exons. Four of the alternate first exons are considered pseudogenes. Each of the remaining nine 5' exons may be spliced to the four common exons, resulting in nine proteins with different N-termini and identical C-termini. Each first exon encodes the substrate binding site, and is regulated by its own promoter. The enzyme encoded by this gene is active on phenols.
UGT2A1	The protein encoded by this gene belongs to the UDP-glycosyltransferase family, members of which catalyze biotransformation reactions in which lipophilic substrates are conjugated with glucuronic acid to increase water solubility and enhance excretion. They are of major importance in the conjugation and subsequent elimination of potentially toxic xenobiotics and endogenous compounds. This enzyme is expressed in the olfactory neuroepithelium, which lines the posterior nasal cavity and is exposed to a wide range of odorants and airborne toxic compounds. Hence, this protein has been suggested to be involved in clearing lipophilic odorant molecules from the sensory epithelium. Alternatively spliced transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been found for this gene. This gene shares exon structure with the UDP glucuronosyltransferase 2A2 family member, which encodes N-terminally distinct isoforms.
UGT2B10	UDPGT is of major importance in the conjugation and subsequent elimination of potentially toxic xenobiotics and endogenous compounds.
UGT2B15	This gene encodes a glycosyltransferase that is invovled in the metabolism and elimination of toxic compounts, both endogenous and of xenobiotic origin. This gene plays a role in the regulation of estrogens and androgens. This locus is present in a cluster of similar genes and pseudogenes on chromosome 4.
UGT2B17	This gene encodes a member of the uridine diphosphoglucuronosyltransferase protein family. The encoded enzyme catalyzes the transfer of glucuronic acid from uridine diphosphoglucuronic acid to a diverse array of substrates including steroid hormones and lipid-soluble drugs. This process, known as glucuronidation, is an intermediate step in the metabolism of steroids. Copy number variation in this gene is associated with susceptibility to osteoporosis.
UGT2B28	This gene encodes a member of the uridine diphosphoglucuronosyltransferase protein family. The encoded enzyme catalyzes the transfer of glucuronic acid from uridine diphosphoglucuronic acid to a diverse array of substrates including steroid hormones and lipid-soluble drugs. This process, known as glucuronidation, is an intermediate step in the metabolism of steroids. Two transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been found for this gene. While both isoforms are targeted to the endoplasmic reticulum, only the longer isoform appears to be active.
UGT2B4	UDPGTs are of major importance in the conjugation and subsequent elimination of potentially toxic xenobiotics and endogenous compounds. This isozyme is active on polyhydroxylated estrogens (such as estriol, 4-hydroxyestrone and 2-hydroxyestriol) and xenobiotics (such as 4-methylumbelliferone, 1-naphthol, 4-nitrophenol, 2-aminophenol, 4-hydroxybiphenyl and menthol). It is capable of 6 alpha-hydroxyglucuronidation of hyodeoxycholic acid.
UGT2B7	The protein encoded by this gene belongs to the UDP-glycosyltransferase (UGT) family. UGTs serve a major role in the conjugation and subsequent elimination of potentially toxic xenobiotics and endogenous compounds. This protein is localized in the microsome membrane, and has unique specificity for 3,4-catechol estrogens and estriol, suggesting that it may play an important role in regulating the level and activity of these potent estrogen metabolites. Alternative splicing results in multiple transcript variants.
ULK1	Serine/threonine-protein kinase involved in autophagy in response to starvation. Acts upstream of phosphatidylinositol 3-kinase PIK3C3 to regulate the formation of autophagophores, the precursors of autophagosomes. Part of regulatory feedback loops in autophagy: acts both as a downstream effector and negative regulator of mammalian target of rapamycin complex 1 (mTORC1) via interaction with RPTOR. Activated via phosphorylation by AMPK and also acts as a regulator of AMPK by mediating phosphorylation of AMPK subunits PRKAA1, PRKAB2 and PRKAG1, leading to negatively regulate AMPK activity. May phosphorylate ATG13/KIAA0652 and RPTOR; however such data need additional evidences. Plays a role early in neuronal differentiation and is required for granule cell axon formation. May also phosphorylate SESN2 and SQSTM1 to regulate autophagy .
ULK2	This gene encodes a protein that is similar to a serine/threonine kinase in C. elegans which is involved in axonal elongation. The structure of this protein is similar to the C. elegans protein in that both proteins have an N-terminal kinase domain, a central proline/serine rich (PS) domain, and a C-terminal (C) domain. The gene is located within the Smith-Magenis syndrome region on chromosome 17. Alternatively spliced transcript variants encoding the same protein have been identified.
ULK3	Serine/threonine protein kinase that acts as a regulator of Sonic hedgehog (SHH) signaling and autophagy. Acts as a negative regulator of SHH signaling in the absence of SHH ligand: interacts with SUFU, thereby inactivating the protein kinase activity and preventing phosphorylation of GLI proteins (GLI1, GLI2 and/or GLI3). Positively regulates SHH signaling in the presence of SHH: dissociates from SUFU, autophosphorylates and mediates phosphorylation of GLI2, activating it and promoting its nuclear translocation. Phosphorylates in vitro GLI2, as well as GLI1 and GLI3, although less efficiently. Also acts as a regulator of autophagy: following cellular senescence, able to induce autophagy.
UMPS	This gene encodes a uridine 5'-monophosphate synthase. The encoded protein is a bifunctional enzyme that catalyzes the final two steps of the de novo pyrimidine biosynthetic pathway. The first reaction is carried out by the N-terminal enzyme orotate phosphoribosyltransferase which converts orotic acid to orotidine-5'-monophosphate. The terminal reaction is carried out by the C-terminal enzyme OMP decarboxylase which converts orotidine-5'-monophosphate to uridine monophosphate. Defects in this gene are the cause of hereditary orotic aciduria. Alternate splicing results in multiple transcript variants.
UNG	This gene encodes one of several uracil-DNA glycosylases. One important function of uracil-DNA glycosylases is to prevent mutagenesis by eliminating uracil from DNA molecules by cleaving the N-glycosylic bond and initiating the base-excision repair (BER) pathway. Uracil bases occur from cytosine deamination or misincorporation of dUMP residues. Alternative promoter usage and splicing of this gene leads to two different isoforms: the mitochondrial UNG1 and the nuclear UNG2. The UNG2 term was used as a previous symbol for the CCNO gene (GeneID 10309), which has been confused with this gene, in the literature and some databases.
UPB1	This gene encodes a protein that belongs to the CN hydrolase family. Beta-ureidopropionase catalyzes the last step in the pyrimidine degradation pathway. The pyrimidine bases uracil and thymine are degraded via the consecutive action of dihydropyrimidine dehydrogenase (DHPDH), dihydropyrimidinase (DHP) and beta-ureidopropionase (UP) to beta-alanine and beta-aminoisobutyric acid, respectively. UP deficiencies are associated with N-carbamyl-beta-amino aciduria and may lead to abnormalities in neurological activity.
UPP1	This gene encodes a uridine phosphorylase, an enzyme that catalyzes the reversible phosphorylation of uridine (or 2'- deoxyuridine) to uracil and ribose-1-phosphate (or deoxyribose-1-phosphate). The encoded enzyme functions in the degradation and salvage of pyrimidine ribonucleosides.
UQCRB	This gene encodes a subunit of the ubiquinol-cytochrome c oxidoreductase complex, which consists of one mitochondrial-encoded and 10 nuclear-encoded subunits. The protein encoded by this gene binds ubiquinone and participates in the transfer of electrons when ubiquinone is bound. This protein plays an important role in hypoxia-induced angiogenesis through mitochondrial reactive oxygen species-mediated signaling. Mutations in this gene are associated with mitochondrial complex III deficiency. Alternatively spliced transcript variants have been found for this gene. Related pseudogenes have been identified on chromosomes 1, 5 and X.
UROD	This gene encodes an enzyme in the heme biosynthetic pathway. This enzyme is responsible for catalyzing the conversion of uroporphyrinogen to coproporphyrinogen through the removal of four carboxymethyl side chains. Mutations and deficiency in this enzyme are known to cause familial porphyria cutanea tarda and hepatoerythropoetic porphyria.
UROS	The protein encoded by this gene catalyzes the fourth step of porphyrin biosynthesis in the heme biosynthetic pathway. Defects in this gene cause congenital erythropoietic porphyria (Gunther's disease).
USP1	This gene encodes a member of the ubiquitin-specific processing (UBP) family of proteases that is a deubiquitinating enzyme (DUB) with His and Cys domains. This protein is located in the cytoplasm and cleaves the ubiquitin moiety from ubiquitin-fused precursors and ubiquitinylated proteins. The protein specifically deubiquitinates a protein in the Fanconi anemia (FA) DNA repair pathway. Alternate transcriptional splice variants have been characterized.
USP10	Ubiquitin is a highly conserved protein that is covalently linked to other proteins to regulate their function and degradation. This gene encodes a member of the ubiquitin-specific protease family of cysteine proteases. The enzyme specifically cleaves ubiquitin from ubiquitin-conjugated protein substrates. The protein is found in the nucleus and cytoplasm. It functions as a co-factor of the DNA-bound androgen receptor complex, and is inhibited by a protein in the Ras-GTPase pathway. The human genome contains several pseudogenes similar to this gene. Several transcript variants, some protein-coding and others not protein-coding, have been found for this gene.
USP13	Deubiquitinase that mediates deubiquitination of target proteins such as BECN1, MITF, SKP2 and USP10 and is involved in various processes such as autophagy and endoplasmic reticulum-associated degradation (ERAD). Component of a regulatory loop that controls autophagy and p53/TP53 levels: mediates deubiquitination of BECN1, a key regulator of autophagy, leading to stabilize the PIK3C3/VPS34-containing complexes. Also deubiquitinates USP10, an essential regulator of p53/TP53 stability. In turn, PIK3C3/VPS34-containing complexes regulate USP13 stability, suggesting the existence of a regulatory system by which PIK3C3/VPS34-containing complexes regulate p53/TP53 protein levels via USP10 and USP13. Recruited by nuclear UFD1 and mediates deubiquitination of SKP2, thereby regulating endoplasmic reticulum-associated degradation (ERAD). Also regulates ERAD through the deubiquitination of UBL4A a component of the BAG6/BAT3 complex. Mediates stabilization of SIAH2 independently of deubiquitinase activity: binds ubiquitinated SIAH2 and acts by impairing SIAH2 autoubiquitination. Has a weak deubiquitinase activity in vitro and preferentially cleaves 'Lys-63'-linked polyubiquitin chains. In contrast to USP5, it is not able to mediate unanchored polyubiquitin disassembly. Able to cleave ISG15 in vitro; however, additional experiments are required to confirm such data.
USP14	This gene encodes a member of the ubiquitin-specific processing (UBP) family of proteases that is a deubiquitinating enzyme (DUB) with His and Cys domains. This protein is located in the cytoplasm and cleaves the ubiquitin moiety from ubiquitin-fused precursors and ubiquitinylated proteins. Mice with a mutation that results in reduced expression of the ortholog of this protein are retarded for growth, develop severe tremors by 2 to 3 weeks of age followed by hindlimb paralysis and death by 6 to 10 weeks of age. Alternate transcriptional splice variants, encoding different isoforms, have been characterized.
USP17L2	DUB3 is a member of the ubiquitin processing protease (UBP) subfamily of deubiquitinating enzymes. See USP1 (MIM 603478) for background information.
USP18	The protein encoded by this gene belongs to the ubiquitin-specific proteases (UBP) family of enzymes that cleave ubiquitin from ubiquitinated protein substrates. It is highly expressed in liver and thymus, and is localized to the nucleus. This protein efficiently cleaves only ISG15 (a ubiquitin-like protein) fusions, and deletion of this gene in mice results in a massive increase of ISG15 conjugates in tissues, indicating that this protein is a major ISG15-specific protease. Mice lacking this gene are also hypersensitive to interferon, suggesting a function of this protein in downregulating interferon responses, independent of its isopeptidase activity towards ISG15.
USP2	This gene encodes a member of the family of de-ubiquitinating enzymes, which belongs to the peptidase C19 superfamily. The encoded protein is a ubiquitin-specific protease which is required for TNF-alpha (tumor necrosis factor alpha) -induced NF-kB (nuclear factor kB) signaling. This protein deubiquitinates polyubiquitinated target proteins such as fatty acid synthase, murine double minute 2 (MDM2), MDM4/MDMX and cyclin D1. MDM2 and MDM4 are negative regulators of the p53 tumor suppressor and cyclin D1 is required for cell cycle G1/S transition. Multiple alternatively spliced transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been identified.
USP20	This gene encodes a ubiquitin specific processing protease that was first identified as a substrate of the VHL (von Hippel-Lindau disease) protein E3 ubiquitin ligase complex. In addition to being ubiquitinated by the VHL-E3 ligase complex, this enzyme deubiquitinates hypoxia-inducible factor (HIF)-1 alpha and thereby causes increased expression of HIF-1alpha targeted genes which play a role in angiogenesis, glucose metabolism, cell proliferation and metastasis. The enzyme encoded by this gene also regulates G-protein coupled receptor signaling by mediating the deubiquitination of beta-2 adrenergic receptor (ADRB2). This enzyme is a ubiquitously expressed thiolester hydrolase. Alternative splicing results in multiple transcript variants encoding the same protein.
USP21	This gene encodes a member of the C19 peptidase family, also known as family 2 of ubiquitin carboxy-terminal hydrolases. The encoded protein cleaves ubiquitin from ubiquitinated proteins for recycling in intracellular protein degradation. The encoded protein is also able to release NEDD8, a ubiquitin-like protein, from NEDD8-conjugated proteins. This gene has been referred to as USP16 and USP23 but is now known as USP21. Alternatively spliced transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been found for this gene.
USP28	The protein encoded by this gene is a deubiquitinase involved in the DNA damage pathway and DNA damage-induced apoptosis. Overexpression of this gene is seen in several cancers.
USP4	The protein encoded by this gene is a protease that deubiquitinates target proteins such as ADORA2A and TRIM21. The encoded protein shuttles between the nucleus and cytoplasm and is involved in maintaining operational fidelity in the endoplasmic reticulum. Three transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been found for this gene.
USP47	Ubiquitin-specific protease that specifically deubiquitinates monoubiquitinated DNA polymerase beta (POLB), stabilizing POLB thereby playing a role in base-excision repair (BER). Acts as a regulator of cell growth and genome integrity. May also indirectly regulate CDC25A expression at a transcriptional level.
USP5	Ubiquitin (see MIM 191339)-dependent proteolysis is a complex pathway of protein metabolism implicated in such diverse cellular functions as maintenance of chromatin structure, receptor function, and degradation of abnormal proteins. A late step of the process involves disassembly of the polyubiquitin chains on degraded proteins into ubiquitin monomers. USP5 disassembles branched polyubiquitin chains by a sequential exo mechanism, starting at the proximal end of the chain (Wilkinson et al., 1995
USP7	The protein encoded by this gene belongs to the peptidase C19 family, which includes ubiquitinyl hydrolases. This protein deubiquitinates target proteins such as p53 (a tumor suppressor protein) and WASH (essential for endosomal protein recycling), and regulates their activities by counteracting the opposing ubiquitin ligase activity of proteins such as HDM2 and TRIM27, involved in the respective process. Mutations in this gene have been implicated in a neurodevelopmental disorder.
USP8	This gene encodes a protein that belongs to the ubiquitin-specific processing protease family of proteins. The encoded protein is thought to regulate the morphology of the endosome by ubiquitination of proteins on this organelle and is involved in cargo sorting and membrane trafficking at the early endosome stage. This protein is required for the cell to enter the S phase of the cell cycle and also functions as a positive regulator in the Hedgehog signaling pathway in development. Pseudogenes of this gene are present on chromosomes 2 and 6. Alternate splicing results in multiple transcript variants.
USP9X	This gene is a member of the peptidase C19 family and encodes a protein that is similar to ubiquitin-specific proteases. Though this gene is located on the X chromosome, it escapes X-inactivation. Mutations in this gene have been associated with Turner syndrome. Alternate transcriptional splice variants, encoding different isoforms, have been characterized.
UTS2R	High affinity receptor for urotensin-2 and urotensin-2B. The activity of this receptor is mediated by a G-protein that activate a phosphatidylinositol-calcium second messenger system.
VAMP2	The protein encoded by this gene is a member of the vesicle-associated membrane protein (VAMP)/synaptobrevin family. Synaptobrevins/VAMPs, syntaxins, and the 25-kD synaptosomal-associated protein SNAP25 are the main components of a protein complex involved in the docking and/or fusion of synaptic vesicles with the presynaptic membrane. This gene is thought to participate in neurotransmitter release at a step between docking and fusion. The protein forms a stable complex with syntaxin, synaptosomal-associated protein, 25 kD, and synaptotagmin. It also forms a distinct complex with synaptophysin. It is a likely candidate gene for familial infantile myasthenia (FIMG) because of its map location and because it encodes a synaptic vesicle protein of the type that has been implicated in the pathogenesis of FIMG.
VARS	Aminoacyl-tRNA synthetases catalyze the aminoacylation of tRNA by their cognate amino acid. Because of their central role in linking amino acids with nucleotide triplets contained in tRNAs, aminoacyl-tRNA synthetases are thought to be among the first proteins that appeared in evolution. The protein encoded by this gene belongs to class-I aminoacyl-tRNA synthetase family and is located in the class III region of the major histocompatibility complex.
VAV1	This gene is a member of the VAV gene family. The VAV proteins are guanine nucleotide exchange factors (GEFs) for Rho family GTPases that activate pathways leading to actin cytoskeletal rearrangements and transcriptional alterations. The encoded protein is important in hematopoiesis, playing a role in T-cell and B-cell development and activation. The encoded protein has been identified as the specific binding partner of Nef proteins from HIV-1. Coexpression and binding of these partners initiates profound morphological changes, cytoskeletal rearrangements and the JNK/SAPK signaling cascade, leading to increased levels of viral transcription and replication. Alternatively spliced transcript variants encoding multiple isoforms have been observed for this gene.
VCAM1	This gene is a member of the Ig superfamily and encodes a cell surface sialoglycoprotein expressed by cytokine-activated endothelium. This type I membrane protein mediates leukocyte-endothelial cell adhesion and signal transduction, and may play a role in the development of artherosclerosis and rheumatoid arthritis. Three alternatively spliced transcripts encoding different isoforms have been described for this gene.
VCP	This gene encodes a member of the AAA ATPase family of proteins. The encoded protein plays a role in protein degradation, intracellular membrane fusion, DNA repair and replication, regulation of the cell cycle, and activation of the NF-kappa B pathway. This protein forms a homohexameric complex that interacts with a variety of cofactors and extracts ubiquitinated proteins from lipid membranes or protein complexes. Mutations in this gene cause IBMPFD (inclusion body myopathy with paget disease of bone and frontotemporal dementia), ALS (amyotrophic lateral sclerosis) and Charcot-Marie-Tooth disease in human patients.
VCPKMT	Protein-lysine N-methyltransferase that specifically trimethylates 'Lys-315' of VCP/p97; this modification may decrease VCP ATPase activity.
VDAC2	This gene encodes a member of the voltage-dependent anion channel pore-forming family of proteins that are considered the main pathway for metabolite diffusion across the mitochondrial outer membrane. The encoded protein is also thought to be involved in the mitochondrial apoptotic pathway via regulation of BCL2-antagonist/killer 1 protein activity. Pseudogenes have been identified on chromosomes 1, 2, 12 and 21, and alternative splicing results in multiple transcript variants.
VDR	This gene encodes vitamin D3 receptor, which is a member of the nuclear hormone receptor superfamily of ligand-inducible transcription factors. This receptor also functions as a receptor for the secondary bile acid, lithocholic acid. Downstream targets of vitamin D3 receptor are principally involved in mineral metabolism, though this receptor regulates a variety of other metabolic pathways, such as those involved in immune response and cancer. Mutations in this gene are associated with type II vitamin D-resistant rickets. A single nucleotide polymorphism in the initiation codon results in an alternate translation start site three codons downstream. Alternatively spliced transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been described for this gene. A recent study provided evidence for translational readthrough in this gene, and expression of an additional C-terminally extended isoform via the use of an alternative in-frame translation termination codon.
VEGFA	This gene is a member of the PDGF/VEGF growth factor family. It encodes a heparin-binding protein, which exists as a disulfide-linked homodimer. This growth factor induces proliferation and migration of vascular endothelial cells, and is essential for both physiological and pathological angiogenesis. Disruption of this gene in mice resulted in abnormal embryonic blood vessel formation. This gene is upregulated in many known tumors and its expression is correlated with tumor stage and progression. Elevated levels of this protein are found in patients with POEMS syndrome, also known as Crow-Fukase syndrome. Allelic variants of this gene have been associated with microvascular complications of diabetes 1 (MVCD1) and atherosclerosis. Alternatively spliced transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been described. There is also evidence for alternative translation initiation from upstream non-AUG (CUG) codons resulting in additional isoforms. A recent study showed that a C-terminally extended isoform is produced by use of an alternative in-frame translation termination codon via a stop codon readthrough mechanism, and that this isoform is antiangiogenic. Expression of some isoforms derived from the AUG start codon is regulated by a small upstream open reading frame, which is located within an internal ribosome entry site.
VEGFB	This gene encodes a member of the PDGF (platelet-derived growth factor)/VEGF (vascular endothelial growth factor) family. The VEGF family members regulate the formation of blood vessels and are involved in endothelial cell physiology. This member is a ligand for VEGFR-1 (vascular endothelial growth factor receptor 1) and NRP-1 (neuropilin-1). Studies in mice showed that this gene was co-expressed with nuclear-encoded mitochondrial genes and the encoded protein specifically controlled endothelial uptake of fatty acids. Alternatively spliced transcript variants encoding distinct isoforms have been identified.
VEGFC	The protein encoded by this gene is a member of the platelet-derived growth factor/vascular endothelial growth factor (PDGF/VEGF) family. The encoded protein promotes angiogenesis and endothelial cell growth, and can also affect the permeability of blood vessels. The proprotein is further cleaved into a fully processed form that can bind and activate VEGFR-2 and VEGFR-3 receptors.
VHL	Von Hippel-Lindau syndrome (VHL) is a dominantly inherited familial cancer syndrome predisposing to a variety of malignant and benign tumors. A germline mutation of this gene is the basis of familial inheritance of VHL syndrome. The protein encoded by this gene is a component of the protein complex that includes elongin B, elongin C, and cullin-2, and possesses ubiquitin ligase E3 activity. This protein is involved in the ubiquitination and degradation of hypoxia-inducible-factor (HIF), which is a transcription factor that plays a central role in the regulation of gene expression by oxygen. RNA polymerase II subunit POLR2G/RPB7 is also reported to be a target of this protein. Alternatively spliced transcript variants encoding distinct isoforms have been observed.
VIM	This gene encodes a type III intermediate filament protein. Intermediate filaments, along with microtubules and actin microfilaments, make up the cytoskeleton. The encoded protein is responsible for maintaining cell shape and integrity of the cytoplasm, and stabilizing cytoskeletal interactions. This protein is involved in neuritogenesis and cholesterol transport and functions as an organizer of a number of other critical proteins involved in cell attachment, migration, and signaling. Bacterial and viral pathogens have been shown to attach to this protein on the host cell surface. Mutations in this gene are associated with congenital cataracts in human patients.
VIP	The protein encoded by this gene belongs to the glucagon family. It stimulates myocardial contractility, causes vasodilation, increases glycogenolysis, lowers arterial blood pressure and relaxes the smooth muscle of trachea, stomach and gall bladder. The protein also acts as an antimicrobial peptide with antibacterial and antifungal activity. Alternative splicing occurs at this locus and two transcript variants encoding distinct isoforms have been identified.
VIPR1	This gene encodes a receptor for vasoactive intestinal peptide, a small neuropeptide. Vasoactive intestinal peptide is involved in smooth muscle relaxation, exocrine and endocrine secretion, and water and ion flux in lung and intestinal epithelia. Its actions are effected through integral membrane receptors associated with a guanine nucleotide binding protein which activates adenylate cyclase. Several transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been found for this gene.
VIPR2	This gene encodes a receptor for vasoactive intestinal peptide, a small neuropeptide. Vasoactive intestinal peptide is involved in smooth muscle relaxation, exocrine and endocrine secretion, and water and ion flux in lung and intestinal epithelia. Its actions are effected through integral membrane receptors associated with a guanine nucleotide binding protein which activates adenylate cyclase.
VKORC1	This gene encodes the catalytic subunit of the vitamin K epoxide reductase complex, which is responsible for the reduction of inactive vitamin K 2,3-epoxide to active vitamin K in the endoplasmic reticulum membrane. Vitamin K is a required co-factor for carboxylation of glutamic acid residues by vitamin K-dependent gamma-carboxylase in blood-clotting enzymes. Allelic variation in this gene is associated with vitamin k-dependent clotting factors combined deficiency of 2, and increased resistance or sensitivity to warfarin, an inhibitor of vitamin K epoxide reductase. Pseudogenes of this gene are located on chromosomes 1 and X. Alternative splicing results in multiple transcript variants.
VPS35	This gene belongs to a group of vacuolar protein sorting (VPS) genes. The encoded protein is a component of a large multimeric complex, termed the retromer complex, involved in retrograde transport of proteins from endosomes to the trans-Golgi network. The close structural similarity between the yeast and human proteins that make up this complex suggests a similarity in function. Expression studies in yeast and mammalian cells indicate that this protein interacts directly with VPS35, which serves as the core of the retromer complex.
VPS4B	The protein encoded by this gene is a member of the AAA protein family (ATPases associated with diverse cellular activities), and is the homolog of the yeast Vps4 protein. In humans, two paralogs of the yeast protein have been identified. The former share a high degree of aa sequence similarity with each other, and also with yeast Vps4 and mouse Skd1 proteins. Mouse Skd1 (suppressor of K+ transport defect 1) has been shown to be a yeast Vps4 ortholog. Functional studies indicate that both human paralogs associate with the endosomal compartments, and are involved in intracellular protein trafficking, similar to Vps4 protein in yeast. The gene encoding this paralog has been mapped to chromosome 18; the gene for the other resides on chromosome 16.
VRK1	This gene encodes a member of the vaccinia-related kinase (VRK) family of serine/threonine protein kinases. This gene is widely expressed in human tissues and has increased expression in actively dividing cells, such as those in testis, thymus, fetal liver, and carcinomas. Its protein localizes to the nucleus and has been shown to promote the stability and nuclear accumulation of a transcriptionally active p53 molecule and, in vitro, to phosphorylate Thr18 of p53 and reduce p53 ubiquitination. This gene, therefore, may regulate cell proliferation. This protein also phosphorylates histone, casein, and the transcription factors ATF2 (activating transcription factor 2) and c-JUN.
VRK2	This gene encodes a member of the vaccinia-related kinase (VRK) family of serine/threonine protein kinases. The encoded protein acts as an effector of signaling pathways that regulate apoptosis and tumor cell growth. Variants in this gene have been associated with schizophrenia. Alternative splicing results in multiple transcript variants that differ in their subcellular localization and biological activity.
VRK3	This gene encodes a member of the vaccinia-related kinase (VRK) family of serine/threonine protein kinases. In both human and mouse, this gene has substitutions at several residues within the ATP binding motifs that in other kinases have been shown to be required for catalysis. In vitro assays indicate the protein lacks phosphorylation activity. The protein, however, likely retains its substrate binding capability. This gene is widely expressed in human tissues and its protein localizes to the nucleus. Alternative splicing results in multiple transcripts encoding different isoforms.
VTN	The protein encoded by this gene is a member of the pexin family. It is found in serum and tissues and promotes cell adhesion and spreading, inhibits the membrane-damaging effect of the terminal cytolytic complement pathway, and binds to several serpin serine protease inhibitors. It is a secreted protein and exists in either a single chain form or a clipped, two chain form held together by a disulfide bond.
VWF	This gene encodes a glycoprotein involved in hemostasis. The encoded preproprotein is proteolytically processed following assembly into large multimeric complexes. These complexes function in the adhesion of platelets to sites of vascular injury and the transport of various proteins in the blood. Mutations in this gene result in von Willebrand disease, an inherited bleeding disorder. An unprocessed pseudogene has been found on chromosome 22.
WDR5	This gene encodes a member of the WD repeat protein family. WD repeats are minimally conserved regions of approximately 40 amino acids typically bracketed by gly-his and trp-asp (GH-WD), which may facilitate formation of heterotrimeric or multiprotein complexes. Members of this family are involved in a variety of cellular processes, including cell cycle progression, signal transduction, apoptosis, and gene regulation. This protein contains 7 WD repeats. Alternatively spliced transcript variants encoding the same protein have been identified.
WEE1	This gene encodes a nuclear protein, which is a tyrosine kinase belonging to the Ser/Thr family of protein kinases. This protein catalyzes the inhibitory tyrosine phosphorylation of CDC2/cyclin B kinase, and appears to coordinate the transition between DNA replication and mitosis by protecting the nucleus from cytoplasmically activated CDC2 kinase.
WEE2	Oocyte-specific protein tyrosine kinase that phosphorylates and inhibits CDK1/CDC2 and acts as a key regulator of meiosis during both prophase I and metaphase II .
WNK1	This gene encodes a member of the WNK subfamily of serine/threonine protein kinases. The encoded protein may be a key regulator of blood pressure by controlling the transport of sodium and chloride ions. Mutations in this gene have been associated with pseudohypoaldosteronism type II and hereditary sensory neuropathy type II. Alternatively spliced transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been described but the full-length nature of all of them has yet to be determined.
WNK2	The protein encoded by this gene is a cytoplasmic serine-threonine kinase that belongs to the protein kinase superfamily. The protein plays an important role in the regulation of electrolyte homeostasis, cell signaling survival, and proliferation. Alternative splicing results in multiple transcript variants.
WNK3	This gene encodes a protein belonging to the 'with no lysine' family of serine-threonine protein kinases. These family members lack the catalytic lysine in subdomain II, and instead have a conserved lysine in subdomain I. This family member functions as a positive regulator of the transcellular Ca2+ transport pathway, and it plays a role in the increase of cell survival in a caspase-3-dependent pathway. Alternative splicing results in multiple transcript variants.
WNK4	This gene encodes a member of the WNK family of serine-threonine protein kinases. The kinase is part of the tight junction complex in kidney cells, and regulates the balance between NaCl reabsorption and K(+) secretion. The kinase regulates the activities of several types of ion channels, cotransporters, and exchangers involved in electrolyte flux in epithelial cells. Mutations in this gene result in pseudohypoaldosteronism type IIB.
WNT2	This gene is a member of the WNT gene family. The WNT gene family consists of structurally related genes which encode secreted signaling proteins. These proteins have been implicated in oncogenesis and in several developmental processes, including regulation of cell fate and patterning during embryogenesis. Alternatively spliced transcript variants have been identified for this gene.
WNT3	The WNT gene family consists of structurally related genes which encode secreted signaling proteins. These proteins have been implicated in oncogenesis and in several developmental processes, including regulation of cell fate and patterning during embryogenesis. This gene is a member of the WNT gene family. It encodes a protein which shows 98% amino acid identity to mouse Wnt3 protein, and 84% to human WNT3A protein, another WNT gene product. The mouse studies show the requirement of Wnt3 in primary axis formation in the mouse. Studies of the gene expression suggest that this gene may play a key role in some cases of human breast, rectal, lung, and gastric cancer through activation of the WNT-beta-catenin-TCF signaling pathway. This gene is clustered with WNT15, another family member, in the chromosome 17q21 region.
WNT3A	The WNT gene family consists of structurally related genes which encode secreted signaling proteins. These proteins have been implicated in oncogenesis and in several developmental processes, including regulation of cell fate and patterning during embryogenesis. This gene is a member of the WNT gene family. It encodes a protein which shows 96% amino acid identity to mouse Wnt3A protein, and 84% to human WNT3 protein, another WNT gene product. This gene is clustered with WNT14 gene, another family member, in chromosome 1q42 region.
WRN	This gene encodes a member of the RecQ subfamily of DNA helicase proteins. The encoded nuclear protein is important in the maintenance of genome stability and plays a role in DNA repair, replication, transcription and telomere maintenance. This protein contains a N-terminal 3' to 5' exonuclease domain, an ATP-dependent helicase domain and RQC (RecQ helicase conserved region) domain in its central region, and a C-terminal HRDC (helicase RNase D C-terminal) domain and nuclear localization signal. Defects in this gene are the cause of Werner syndrome, an autosomal recessive disorder characterized by accelerated aging and an elevated risk for certain cancers.
XBP1	This gene encodes a transcription factor that regulates MHC class II genes by binding to a promoter element referred to as an X box. This gene product is a bZIP protein, which was also identified as a cellular transcription factor that binds to an enhancer in the promoter of the T cell leukemia virus type 1 promoter. It may increase expression of viral proteins by acting as the DNA binding partner of a viral transactivator. It has been found that upon accumulation of unfolded proteins in the endoplasmic reticulum (ER), the mRNA of this gene is processed to an active form by an unconventional splicing mechanism that is mediated by the endonuclease inositol-requiring enzyme 1 (IRE1). The resulting loss of 26 nt from the spliced mRNA causes a frame-shift and an isoform XBP1(S), which is the functionally active transcription factor. The isoform encoded by the unspliced mRNA, XBP1(U), is constitutively expressed, and thought to function as a negative feedback regulator of XBP1(S), which shuts off transcription of target genes during the recovery phase of ER stress. A pseudogene of XBP1 has been identified and localized to chromosome 5.
XDH	Xanthine dehydrogenase belongs to the group of molybdenum-containing hydroxylases involved in the oxidative metabolism of purines. The encoded protein has been identified as a moonlighting protein based on its ability to perform mechanistically distinct functions. Xanthine dehydrogenase can be converted to xanthine oxidase by reversible sulfhydryl oxidation or by irreversible proteolytic modification. Defects in xanthine dehydrogenase cause xanthinuria, may contribute to adult respiratory stress syndrome, and may potentiate influenza infection through an oxygen metabolite-dependent mechanism.
XIAP	This gene encodes a protein that belongs to a family of apoptotic suppressor proteins. Members of this family share a conserved motif termed, baculovirus IAP repeat, which is necessary for their anti-apoptotic function. This protein functions through binding to tumor necrosis factor receptor-associated factors TRAF1 and TRAF2 and inhibits apoptosis induced by menadione, a potent inducer of free radicals, and interleukin 1-beta converting enzyme. This protein also inhibits at least two members of the caspase family of cell-death proteases, caspase-3 and caspase-7. Mutations in this gene are the cause of X-linked lymphoproliferative syndrome. Alternate splicing results in multiple transcript variants. Pseudogenes of this gene are found on chromosomes 2 and 11.
XPNPEP1	This gene encodes the cytosolic form of a metalloaminopeptidase that catalyzes the cleavage of the N-terminal amino acid adjacent to a proline residue. The gene product may play a role in degradation and maturation of tachykinins, neuropeptides, and peptide hormones. Alternative splicing results in multiple transcript variants.
XPNPEP2	Aminopeptidase P is a hydrolase specific for N-terminal imido bonds, which are common to several collagen degradation products, neuropeptides, vasoactive peptides, and cytokines. Structurally, the enzyme is a member of the 'pita bread fold' family and occurs in mammalian tissues in both soluble and GPI-anchored membrane-bound forms.  A membrane-bound and soluble form of this enzyme have been identified as products of two separate genes.
XPO1	This cell-cycle-regulated gene encodes a protein that mediates leucine-rich nuclear export signal (NES)-dependent protein transport. The protein specifically inhibits the nuclear export of Rev and U snRNAs. It is involved in the control of several cellular processes by controlling the localization of cyclin B, MPAK, and MAPKAP kinase 2. This protein also regulates NFAT and AP-1.
YARS	Aminoacyl-tRNA synthetases catalyze the aminoacylation of tRNA by their cognate amino acid. Because of their central role in linking amino acids with nucleotide triplets contained in tRNAs, aminoacyl-tRNA synthetases are thought to be among the first proteins that appeared in evolution. Tyrosyl-tRNA synthetase belongs to the class I tRNA synthetase family. Cytokine activities have also been observed for the human tyrosyl-tRNA synthetase, after it is split into two parts, an N-terminal fragment that harbors the catalytic site and a C-terminal fragment found only in the mammalian enzyme. The N-terminal fragment is an interleukin-8-like cytokine, whereas the released C-terminal fragment is an EMAP II-like cytokine.
YES1	This gene is the cellular homolog of the Yamaguchi sarcoma virus oncogene. The encoded protein has tyrosine kinase activity and belongs to the src family of proteins. This gene lies in close proximity to thymidylate synthase gene on chromosome 18, and a corresponding pseudogene has been found on chromosome 22.
YWHAB	This gene encodes a protein belonging to the 14-3-3 family of proteins, members of which mediate signal transduction by binding to phosphoserine-containing proteins. This highly conserved protein family is found in both plants and mammals. The encoded protein has been shown to interact with RAF1 and CDC25 phosphatases, suggesting that it may play a role in linking mitogenic signaling and the cell cycle machinery. Two transcript variants, which encode the same protein, have been identified for this gene.
YWHAE	This gene product belongs to the 14-3-3 family of proteins which mediate signal transduction by binding to phosphoserine-containing proteins. This highly conserved protein family is found in both plants and mammals, and this protein is 100% identical to the mouse ortholog. It interacts with CDC25 phosphatases, RAF1 and IRS1 proteins, suggesting its role in diverse biochemical activities related to signal transduction, such as cell division and regulation of insulin sensitivity. It has also been implicated in the pathogenesis of small cell lung cancer. Two transcript variants, one protein-coding and the other non-protein-coding, have been found for this gene.
YWHAG	This gene product belongs to the 14-3-3 family of proteins which mediate signal transduction by binding to phosphoserine-containing proteins. This highly conserved protein family is found in both plants and mammals, and this protein is 100% identical to the rat ortholog. It is induced by growth factors in human vascular smooth muscle cells, and is also highly expressed in skeletal and heart muscles, suggesting an important role for this protein in muscle tissue. It has been shown to interact with RAF1 and protein kinase C, proteins involved in various signal transduction pathways.
YWHAH	This gene product belongs to the 14-3-3 family of proteins which mediate signal transduction by binding to phosphoserine-containing proteins. This highly conserved protein family is found in both plants and mammals, and this protein is 99% identical to the mouse, rat and bovine orthologs. This gene contains a 7 bp repeat sequence in its 5' UTR, and changes in the number of this repeat have been associated with early-onset schizophrenia and psychotic bipolar disorder.
YWHAQ	This gene product belongs to the 14-3-3 family of proteins which mediate signal transduction by binding to phosphoserine-containing proteins. This highly conserved protein family is found in both plants and mammals, and this protein is 99% identical to the mouse and rat orthologs. This gene is upregulated in patients with amyotrophic lateral sclerosis. It contains in its 5' UTR a 6 bp tandem repeat sequence which is polymorphic, however, there is no correlation between the repeat number and the disease.
ZAP70	This gene encodes an enzyme belonging to the protein tyrosine kinase family, and it plays a role in T-cell development and lymphocyte activation. This enzyme, which is phosphorylated on tyrosine residues upon T-cell antigen receptor (TCR) stimulation, functions in the initial step of TCR-mediated signal transduction in combination with the Src family kinases, Lck and Fyn. This enzyme is also essential for thymocyte development. Mutations in this gene cause selective T-cell defect, a severe combined immunodeficiency disease characterized by a selective absence of CD8-positive T-cells. Two transcript variants that encode different isoforms have been found for this gene.
ZMPSTE24	This gene encodes a member of the peptidase M48A family. The encoded protein is a zinc metalloproteinase involved in the two step post-translational proteolytic cleavage of carboxy terminal residues of farnesylated prelamin A to form mature lamin A. Mutations in this gene have been associated with mandibuloacral dysplasia and restrictive dermopathy.
ZMYND8	The protein encoded by this gene is a receptor for activated C-kinase (RACK) protein. The encoded protein has been shown to bind in vitro to activated protein kinase C beta I. In addition, this protein is a cutaneous T-cell lymphoma-associated antigen. Finally, the protein contains a bromodomain and two zinc fingers, and is thought to be a transcriptional regulator. Multiple transcript variants encoding several different isoforms have been found for this gene.
