GO:0018105	peptidyl-serine phosphorylation. The phosphorylation of peptidyl-serine to form peptidyl-O-phospho-L-serine.
GO:0006629	lipid metabolic process. lipid metabolism. The chemical reactions and pathways involving lipids, compounds soluble in an organic solvent but not, or sparingly, in an aqueous solvent. Includes fatty acids; neutral fats, other fatty-acid esters, and soaps; long-chain (fatty) alcohols and waxes; sphingoids and other long-chain bases; glycolipids, phospholipids and sphingolipids; and carotenes, polyprenols, sterols, terpenes and other isoprenoids.
GO:0045577	regulation of B cell differentiation. regulation of B cell development. regulation of B lymphocyte differentiation. regulation of B-cell differentiation. regulation of B-lymphocyte differentiation. Any process that modulates the frequency, rate or extent of B cell differentiation.
GO:0019359	nicotinamide nucleotide biosynthetic process. nicotinamide nucleotide anabolism. nicotinamide nucleotide biosynthesis. nicotinamide nucleotide formation. nicotinamide nucleotide synthesis. The chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the formation of nicotinamide nucleotides, any nucleotide that contains combined nicotinamide.
GO:0071456	cellular response to hypoxia. cellular response to hypoxic stress. cellular response to lowered oxygen tension. Any process that results in a change in state or activity of a cell (in terms of movement, secretion, enzyme production, gene expression, etc.) as a result of a stimulus indicating lowered oxygen tension. Hypoxia, defined as a decline in O2 levels below normoxic levels of 20.8 - 20.95%, results in metabolic adaptation at both the cellular and organismal level.
GO:1901224	positive regulation of NIK/NF-kappaB signaling. activation of NIK/NF-kappaB cascade. activation of non-canonical NF-KB signaling. activation of noncanonical NF-kappaB signaling. activation of noncanonical nuclear factor kappaB (NF-kappaB) pathway. activation of p52-dependent NF-kappaB signaling. negative regulation of cytoplasmic NF-kappaB storage. positive regulation of NF-kappaB import into nucleus. positive regulation of NIK/NF-kappaB cascade. positive regulation of non-canonical NF-KB signaling. positive regulation of noncanonical NF-kappaB signaling. positive regulation of noncanonical nuclear factor kappaB (NF-kappaB) pathway. positive regulation of p52-dependent NF-kappaB signaling. release of cytoplasmic sequestered NF-kappaB. release of NF-kappaB sequestered in cytoplasm. up regulation of NIK/NF-kappaB cascade. up regulation of non-canonical NF-KB signaling. up regulation of noncanonical NF-kappaB signaling. up regulation of noncanonical nuclear factor kappaB (NF-kappaB) pathway. up regulation of p52-dependent NF-kappaB signaling. up-regulation of NIK/NF-kappaB cascade. up-regulation of non-canonical NF-KB signaling. up-regulation of noncanonical NF-kappaB signaling. up-regulation of noncanonical nuclear factor kappaB (NF-kappaB) pathway. up-regulation of p52-dependent NF-kappaB signaling. upregulation of NIK/NF-kappaB cascade. upregulation of non-canonical NF-KB signaling. upregulation of noncanonical NF-kappaB signaling. upregulation of noncanonical nuclear factor kappaB (NF-kappaB) pathway. upregulation of p52-dependent NF-kappaB signaling. Any process that activates or increases the frequency, rate or extent of NIK/NF-kappaB signaling.
GO:0006972	hyperosmotic response. HOG response. hypertonic response. response to hypertonicity. Any process that results in a change in state or activity of a cell or an organism (in terms of movement, secretion, enzyme production, gene expression, etc.) as a result of detection of, or exposure to, a hyperosmotic environment, i.e. an environment with a higher concentration of solutes than the organism or cell.
GO:0071071	regulation of phospholipid biosynthetic process. regulation of phospholipid anabolism. regulation of phospholipid biosynthesis. regulation of phospholipid formation. regulation of phospholipid synthesis. Any process that modulates the frequency, rate or extent of the chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the formation of phospholipids.
GO:0031063	regulation of histone deacetylation. Any process that modulates the frequency, rate or extent of the removal of acetyl groups from histones.
GO:0045860	positive regulation of protein kinase activity. stimulation of protein kinase activity. up regulation of protein kinase activity. up-regulation of protein kinase activity. upregulation of protein kinase activity. Any process that activates or increases the frequency, rate or extent of protein kinase activity.
GO:0034162	toll-like receptor 9 signaling pathway. TLR9 signaling pathway. toll-like receptor 9 signalling pathway. The series of molecular signals initiated by a ligand binding to toll-like receptor 9.
GO:0007411	axon guidance. axon chemotaxis. axon growth cone guidance. axon pathfinding. The chemotaxis process that directs the migration of an axon growth cone to a specific target site in response to a combination of attractive and repulsive cues.
GO:0001701	in utero embryonic development. The process whose specific outcome is the progression of the embryo in the uterus over time, from formation of the zygote in the oviduct, to birth. An example of this process is found in Mus musculus.
GO:0031145	anaphase-promoting complex-dependent catabolic process. anaphase-promoting complex-dependent proteasomal ubiquitin-dependent protein breakdown. anaphase-promoting complex-dependent proteasomal ubiquitin-dependent protein catabolic process. anaphase-promoting complex-dependent proteasomal ubiquitin-dependent protein catabolism. anaphase-promoting complex-dependent proteasomal ubiquitin-dependent protein degradation. APC-dependent proteasomal ubiquitin-dependent protein catabolic process. APC-dependent proteasomal ubiquitin-dependent protein catabolism. cyclin breakdown. cyclin catabolic process. cyclin catabolism. cyclin degradation. degradation of cyclin. negative regulation of cyclin-dependent protein serine/threonine kinase by cyclin degradation. The chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the breakdown of a protein or peptide by hydrolysis of its peptide bonds, initiated by the covalent attachment of ubiquitin, with ubiquitin-protein ligation catalyzed by the anaphase-promoting complex, and mediated by the proteasome.
GO:0140115	export across plasma membrane. efflux. The directed movement of some substance from inside of a cell, across the plasma membrane and into the extracellular region.
GO:0045664	regulation of neuron differentiation. Any process that modulates the frequency, rate or extent of neuron differentiation.
GO:0007346	regulation of mitotic cell cycle. mitotic cell cycle modulation. mitotic cell cycle regulation. mitotic cell cycle regulator. modulation of mitotic cell cycle progression. regulation of mitotic cell cycle progression. regulation of progression through mitotic cell cycle. Any process that modulates the rate or extent of progress through the mitotic cell cycle.
GO:0086012	membrane depolarization during cardiac muscle cell action potential. The process in which cardiac muscle cell membrane potential changes in the depolarizing direction from the negative resting potential towards the positive membrane potential that will be the peak of the action potential.
GO:0031057	negative regulation of histone modification. down regulation of histone modification. down-regulation of histone modification. downregulation of histone modification. inhibition of histone modification. Any process that stops, prevents, or reduces the frequency, rate or extent of the covalent alteration of a histone.
GO:0071295	cellular response to vitamin. Any process that results in a change in state or activity of a cell (in terms of movement, secretion, enzyme production, gene expression, etc.) as a result of a vitamin stimulus.
GO:0051090	regulation of DNA-binding transcription factor activity. regulation of androgen receptor activity. regulation of DNA binding transcription factor activity. regulation of sequence-specific DNA binding transcription factor activity. regulation of thyroid hormone receptor activity. regulation of transcription factor activity. Any process that modulates the frequency, rate or extent of the activity of a transcription factor, any factor involved in the initiation or regulation of transcription.
GO:1900117	regulation of execution phase of apoptosis. Any process that modulates the frequency, rate or extent of execution phase of apoptosis.
GO:0051252	regulation of RNA metabolic process. regulation of RNA metabolism. Any process that modulates the frequency, rate or extent of the chemical reactions and pathways involving RNA.
GO:0006040	amino sugar metabolic process. amino sugar metabolism. aminosaccharide metabolic process. aminosaccharide metabolism. The chemical reactions and pathways involving any amino sugar, sugars containing an amino group in place of a hydroxyl group.
GO:0060443	mammary gland morphogenesis. The process in which anatomical structures of the mammary gland are generated and organized. Morphogenesis refers to the creation of shape. The mammary gland is a large compound sebaceous gland that in female mammals is modified to secrete milk.
GO:0050818	regulation of coagulation. regulation of clotting. Any process that modulates the frequency, rate or extent of coagulation, the process in which a fluid solution, or part of it, changes into a solid or semisolid mass.
GO:0002761	regulation of myeloid leukocyte differentiation. Any process that modulates the frequency, rate, or extent of myeloid leukocyte differentiation.
GO:0048536	spleen development. The process whose specific outcome is the progression of the spleen over time, from its formation to the mature structure. The spleen is a large vascular lymphatic organ composed of white and red pulp, involved both in hemopoietic and immune system functions.
GO:0030073	insulin secretion. The regulated release of proinsulin from secretory granules accompanied by cleavage of proinsulin to form mature insulin. In vertebrates, insulin is secreted from B granules in the B cells of the vertebrate pancreas and from insulin-producing cells in insects.
GO:0070050	neuron cellular homeostasis. neuron maintenance. The cellular homeostatic process that preserves a neuron in a stable, differentiated functional and structural state.
GO:0045824	negative regulation of innate immune response. down regulation of innate immune response. down-regulation of innate immune response. downregulation of innate immune response. inhibition of innate immune response. Any process that stops, prevents, or reduces the frequency, rate or extent of the innate immune response.
GO:1901659	glycosyl compound biosynthetic process. glycosyl compound anabolism. glycosyl compound biosynthesis. glycosyl compound formation. glycosyl compound synthesis. The chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the formation of glycosyl compound.
GO:0002699	positive regulation of immune effector process. activation of immune effector process. stimulation of immune effector process. up regulation of immune effector process. up-regulation of immune effector process. upregulation of immune effector process. Any process that activates or increases the frequency, rate, or extent of an immune effector process.
GO:0032269	negative regulation of protein metabolic process. down regulation of cellular protein metabolic process. down regulation of protein metabolic process. down-regulation of cellular protein metabolic process. down-regulation of protein metabolic process. downregulation of cellular protein metabolic process. downregulation of protein metabolic process. inhibition of cellular protein metabolic process. inhibition of protein metabolic process. negative regulation of cellular protein metabolic process. negative regulation of cellular protein metabolism. negative regulation of protein metabolism. Any process that stops, prevents, or reduces the frequency, rate or extent of chemical reactions and pathways involving a protein.
GO:0010469	regulation of signaling receptor activity. regulation of receptor activity. regulation of signalling receptor activity. Any process that modulates the frequency, rate or extent of a signaling receptor activity. Receptor activity is when a molecule combines with an extracellular or intracellular messenger to initiate a change in cell activity.
GO:0007041	lysosomal transport. The directed movement of substances into, out of or within a lysosome.
GO:0045070	positive regulation of viral genome replication. activation of viral genome replication. stimulation of viral genome replication. up regulation of viral genome replication. up-regulation of viral genome replication. upregulation of viral genome replication. Any process that activates or increases the frequency, rate or extent of viral genome replication.
GO:0006396	RNA processing. Any process involved in the conversion of one or more primary RNA transcripts into one or more mature RNA molecules.
GO:1990830	cellular response to leukemia inhibitory factor. cellular response to CDF. cellular response to cholinergic differentiation factor. Any process that results in a change in state or activity of a cell (in terms of movement, secretion, enzyme production, gene expression, etc.) as a result of a leukemia inhibitory factor stimulus.
GO:1900745	positive regulation of p38MAPK cascade. activation of p38 cascade. activation of p38 MAPK cascade. activation of p38MAPK cascade. positive regulation of p38 cascade. positive regulation of p38 MAPK cascade. up regulation of p38 cascade. up regulation of p38 MAPK cascade. up regulation of p38MAPK cascade. up-regulation of p38 cascade. up-regulation of p38 MAPK cascade. up-regulation of p38MAPK cascade. upregulation of p38 cascade. upregulation of p38 MAPK cascade. upregulation of p38MAPK cascade. Any process that activates or increases the frequency, rate or extent of p38MAPK cascade.
GO:0051186	obsolete cofactor metabolic process. cofactor metabolism. OBSOLETE. The chemical reactions and pathways involving a cofactor, a substance that is required for the activity of an enzyme or other protein. Cofactors may be inorganic, such as the metal atoms zinc, iron, and copper in certain forms, or organic, in which case they are referred to as coenzymes. Cofactors may either be bound tightly to active sites or bind loosely with the substrate.
GO:0033280	response to vitamin D. response to calciferol. response to cholecalciferol. response to ergocalciferol. Any process that results in a change in state or activity of a cell or an organism (in terms of movement, secretion, enzyme production, gene expression, etc.) as a result of a vitamin D stimulus.
GO:0090184	positive regulation of kidney development. positive regulation of nephrogenesis. Any process that increases the rate, frequency or extent of kidney development. Kidney development is the process whose specific outcome is the progression of the kidney over time, from its formation to the mature structure. The kidney is an organ that filters the blood and excretes the end products of body metabolism in the form of urine.
GO:0072655	establishment of protein localization to mitochondrion. establishment of protein localisation to mitochondrion. establishment of protein localization in mitochondrion. The directed movement of a protein to the mitochondrion or a part of the mitochondrion.
GO:0006879	cellular iron ion homeostasis. iron homeostasis. Any process involved in the maintenance of an internal steady state of iron ions at the level of a cell.
GO:0090066	regulation of anatomical structure size. Any process that modulates the size of an anatomical structure.
GO:0097435	supramolecular fiber organization. extracellular fibril organisation. extracellular fibril organization. extracellular fibril organization and biogenesis. fibril organisation. fibril organization. A process that is carried out at the cellular level which results in the assembly, arrangement of constituent parts, or disassembly of a supramolecular fiber, a polymer consisting of an indefinite number of protein or protein complex subunits that have polymerised to form a fiber-shaped structure.
GO:0099170	postsynaptic modulation of chemical synaptic transmission. Any process, acting in the postsynapse that results in modulation of chemical synaptic transmission.
GO:0048608	reproductive structure development. The reproductive developmental process whose specific outcome is the progression of somatic structures that will be used in the process of creating new individuals from one or more parents, from their formation to the mature structures.
GO:1905269	positive regulation of chromatin organization. activation of chromatin assembly or disassembly. activation of chromatin organisation. activation of chromatin organization. activation of establishment or maintenance of chromatin architecture. positive regulation of chromatin assembly or disassembly. positive regulation of chromatin assembly/disassembly. positive regulation of chromatin modification. positive regulation of chromatin organisation. positive regulation of establishment or maintenance of chromatin architecture. stimulation of chromatin assembly or disassembly. up regulation of chromatin assembly or disassembly. up regulation of chromatin organisation. up regulation of chromatin organization. up regulation of establishment or maintenance of chromatin architecture. up-regulation of chromatin assembly or disassembly. up-regulation of chromatin organisation. up-regulation of chromatin organization. up-regulation of establishment or maintenance of chromatin architecture. upregulation of chromatin assembly or disassembly. upregulation of chromatin organisation. upregulation of chromatin organization. upregulation of establishment or maintenance of chromatin architecture. Any process that activates or increases the frequency, rate or extent of chromatin organization.
GO:0097711	ciliary basal body-plasma membrane docking. anchoring of the basal body to the plasma membrane. ciliary basal body docking. The docking of a cytosolic centriole/basal body to the plasma membrane via the ciliary transition fibers. In some species this may happen via an intermediate step, by first docking to the ciliary vesicle via the ciliary transition fibers. The basal body-ciliary vesicle then relocates to the plasma membrane, followed by the ciliary vesicle fusing with the plasma membrane, effectively attaching the basal body to the plasma membrane.
GO:0042307	positive regulation of protein import into nucleus. activation of protein import into nucleus. positive regulation of protein import into cell nucleus. positive regulation of protein transport from cytoplasm to nucleus. positive regulation of protein-nucleus import. stimulation of protein import into nucleus. up regulation of protein import into nucleus. up-regulation of protein import into nucleus. upregulation of protein import into nucleus. Any process that activates or increases the frequency, rate or extent of movement of proteins from the cytoplasm into the nucleus.
GO:0001843	neural tube closure. The last step in the formation of the neural tube, where the paired neural folds are brought together and fuse at the dorsal midline.
GO:2000377	regulation of reactive oxygen species metabolic process. regulation of reactive oxygen species metabolism. regulation of ROS metabolic process. Any process that modulates the frequency, rate or extent of reactive oxygen species metabolic process.
GO:0016266	O-glycan processing. The stepwise addition of carbohydrate or carbohydrate derivative residues to the initially added O-linked residue (usually GalNAc) to form a core O-glycan structure.
GO:0016310	phosphorylation. The process of introducing a phosphate group into a molecule, usually with the formation of a phosphoric ester, a phosphoric anhydride or a phosphoric amide.
GO:0043279	response to alkaloid. Any process that results in a change in state or activity of a cell or an organism (in terms of movement, secretion, enzyme production, gene expression, etc.) as a result of an alkaloid stimulus. Alkaloids are a large group of nitrogenous substances found in naturally in plants, many of which have extracts that are pharmacologically active.
GO:0097746	blood vessel diameter maintenance. blood vessel diameter homeostasis. regulation of blood vessel diameter. regulation of blood vessel size. regulation of vasodilatation. regulation of vasodilation. Any process that modulates the diameter of blood vessels.
GO:0046903	secretion. The controlled release of a substance by a cell or a tissue.
GO:0030949	positive regulation of vascular endothelial growth factor receptor signaling pathway. activation of vascular endothelial growth factor receptor signaling pathway. positive regulation of vascular endothelial growth factor receptor signalling pathway. positive regulation of VEGF receptor signaling pathway. positive regulation of VEGF receptor signalling pathway. stimulation of vascular endothelial growth factor receptor signaling pathway. up regulation of vascular endothelial growth factor receptor signaling pathway. up-regulation of vascular endothelial growth factor receptor signaling pathway. upregulation of vascular endothelial growth factor receptor signaling pathway. Any process that activates or increases the frequency, rate or extent of vascular endothelial growth factor receptor signaling pathway activity.
GO:0007399	nervous system development. pan-neural process. The process whose specific outcome is the progression of nervous tissue over time, from its formation to its mature state.
GO:0043154	negative regulation of cysteine-type endopeptidase activity involved in apoptotic process. down regulation of caspase activity. down-regulation of caspase activity. downregulation of caspase activity. inhibition of caspase activation. inhibition of caspase activity. negative regulation of caspase activation. negative regulation of caspase activity. Any process that stops, prevents, or reduces the frequency, rate or extent of a cysteine-type endopeptidase activity involved in the apoptotic process.
GO:0050710	negative regulation of cytokine production. down regulation of cytokine biosynthetic process. down regulation of cytokine production. down-regulation of cytokine biosynthetic process. down-regulation of cytokine production. downregulation of cytokine biosynthetic process. downregulation of cytokine production. inhibition of cytokine biosynthetic process. inhibition of cytokine production. negative regulation of cytokine anabolism. negative regulation of cytokine biosynthesis. negative regulation of cytokine biosynthetic process. negative regulation of cytokine formation. negative regulation of cytokine secretion. negative regulation of cytokine synthesis. Any process that stops, prevents, or reduces the rate of production of a cytokine.
GO:0042832	defense response to protozoan. defence response to pathogenic protozoa. defence response to protozoa. defence response to protozoon. defense response to pathogenic protozoa. defense response to protozoa. defense response to protozoan, incompatible interaction. defense response to protozoon. resistance response to pathogenic protozoa. resistance response to pathogenic protozoan. Reactions triggered in response to the presence of a protozoan that act to protect the cell or organism.
GO:0035729	cellular response to hepatocyte growth factor stimulus. cellular response to HGF stimulus. Any process that results in a change in state or activity of a cell (in terms of movement, secretion, enzyme production, gene expression, etc.) as a result of a hepatocyte growth factor stimulus.
GO:0090026	positive regulation of monocyte chemotaxis. Any process that increases the frequency, rate, or extent of monocyte chemotaxis.
GO:0031293	membrane protein intracellular domain proteolysis. membrane protein solubilization. The proteolytic cleavage of a transmembrane protein leading to the release of an intracellular domain.
GO:0009791	post-embryonic development. The process whose specific outcome is the progression of the organism over time, from the completion of embryonic development to the mature structure. See embryonic development.
GO:0051928	positive regulation of calcium ion transport. activation of calcium ion transport. positive regulation of calcium transport. stimulation of calcium ion transport. up regulation of calcium ion transport. up-regulation of calcium ion transport. upregulation of calcium ion transport. Any process that activates or increases the frequency, rate or extent of the directed movement of calcium ions into, out of or within a cell, or between cells, by means of some agent such as a transporter or pore.
GO:0010226	response to lithium ion. Any process that results in a change in state or activity of a cell or an organism (in terms of movement, secretion, enzyme production, gene expression, etc.) as a result of a lithium (Li+) ion stimulus.
GO:1900408	negative regulation of cellular response to oxidative stress. down regulation of adaptive response to oxidative stress. down regulation of cellular response to oxidative stress. down-regulation of adaptive response to oxidative stress. down-regulation of cellular response to oxidative stress. downregulation of adaptive response to oxidative stress. downregulation of cellular response to oxidative stress. inhibition of adaptive response to oxidative stress. inhibition of cellular response to oxidative stress. negative regulation of adaptive response to oxidative stress. Any process that stops, prevents or reduces the frequency, rate or extent of cellular response to oxidative stress.
GO:0007283	spermatogenesis. generation of spermatozoa. The developmental process by which male germ line stem cells self renew or give rise to successive cell types resulting in the development of a spermatozoa.
GO:0035264	multicellular organism growth. body growth. The increase in size or mass of an entire multicellular organism, as opposed to cell growth.
GO:0008209	androgen metabolic process. androgen metabolism. The chemical reactions and pathways involving androgens, C19 steroid hormones that can stimulate the development of male sexual characteristics.
GO:0032411	positive regulation of transporter activity. activation of transporter activity. stimulation of transporter activity. up regulation of transporter activity. up-regulation of transporter activity. upregulation of transporter activity. Any process that activates or increases the activity of a transporter.
GO:0002223	stimulatory C-type lectin receptor signaling pathway. stimulatory C-type lectin receptor signalling pathway. stimulatory Ly49 family receptor signaling pathway. The series of molecular signals initiated by the binding of C-type lectin to its receptor on the surface of a target cell, and resulting in cellular activation.
GO:0051146	striated muscle cell differentiation. voluntary muscle cell differentiation. The process in which a relatively unspecialized cell acquires specialized features of a striated muscle cell; striated muscle fibers are divided by transverse bands into striations, and cardiac and voluntary muscle are types of striated muscle.
GO:0046942	carboxylic acid transport. The directed movement of carboxylic acids into, out of or within a cell, or between cells, by means of some agent such as a transporter or pore. Carboxylic acids are organic acids containing one or more carboxyl (COOH) groups or anions (COO-).
GO:0010543	regulation of platelet activation. Any process that modulates the rate or frequency of platelet activation. Platelet activation is a series of progressive, overlapping events triggered by exposure of the platelets to subendothelial tissue.
GO:1901565	organonitrogen compound catabolic process. organonitrogen compound breakdown. organonitrogen compound catabolism. organonitrogen compound degradation. The chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the breakdown of organonitrogen compound.
GO:1904064	positive regulation of cation transmembrane transport. activation of cation transmembrane transport. up regulation of cation transmembrane transport. up-regulation of cation transmembrane transport. upregulation of cation transmembrane transport. Any process that activates or increases the frequency, rate or extent of cation transmembrane transport.
GO:0070098	chemokine-mediated signaling pathway. chemokine-mediated signalling pathway. The series of molecular signals initiated by a chemokine binding to its receptor on the surface of a target cell, and ending with the regulation of a downstream cellular process, e.g. transcription.
GO:0019377	glycolipid catabolic process. glycolipid breakdown. glycolipid catabolism. glycolipid degradation. The chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the breakdown of glycolipid, a class of 1,2-di-O-acylglycerols joined at oxygen 3 by a glycosidic linkage to a carbohydrate part (usually a mono-, di- or tri-saccharide).
GO:2000310	regulation of NMDA receptor activity. regulation of N-methyl-D-aspartate selective glutamate receptor activity. Any process that modulates the frequency, rate or extent of N-methyl-D-aspartate selective glutamate receptor activity.
GO:0032369	negative regulation of lipid transport. down regulation of lipid transport. down-regulation of lipid transport. downregulation of lipid transport. inhibition of lipid transport. Any process that stops, prevents, or reduces the frequency, rate or extent of the directed movement of lipids into, out of or within a cell, or between cells, by means of some agent such as a transporter or pore.
GO:0019884	antigen processing and presentation of exogenous antigen. antigen presentation, exogenous antigen. The process in which an antigen-presenting cell expresses antigen (peptide or lipid) of exogenous origin on its cell surface in association with an MHC protein complex.
GO:0030574	collagen catabolic process. collagen breakdown. collagen catabolism. collagen degradation. The proteolytic chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the breakdown of collagen in the extracellular matrix, usually carried out by proteases secreted by nearby cells.
GO:1901571	fatty acid derivative transport. The directed movement of a fatty acid derivative into, out of or within a cell, or between cells, by means of some agent such as a transporter or pore.
GO:0003279	cardiac septum development. heart septum development. The progression of a cardiac septum over time, from its initial formation to the mature structure.
GO:0016051	carbohydrate biosynthetic process. anabolic carbohydrate metabolic process. anabolic carbohydrate metabolism. carbohydrate anabolism. carbohydrate biosynthesis. carbohydrate formation. carbohydrate synthesis. The chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the formation of carbohydrates, any of a group of organic compounds based of the general formula Cx(H2O)y.
GO:0050906	detection of stimulus involved in sensory perception. sensory detection of stimulus. sensory perception, sensory transduction of stimulus. sensory perception, stimulus detection. sensory transduction. The series of events involved in sensory perception in which a sensory stimulus is received and converted into a molecular signal.
GO:0071260	cellular response to mechanical stimulus. cellular mechanical stimulus response. Any process that results in a change in state or activity of a cell (in terms of movement, secretion, enzyme production, gene expression, etc.) as a result of a mechanical stimulus.
GO:0061041	regulation of wound healing. Any process that modulates the rate, frequency, or extent of the series of events that restore integrity to a damaged tissue, following an injury.
GO:0110053	regulation of actin filament organization. Any process that modulates the frequency, rate or extent of actin filament organization.
GO:0048639	positive regulation of developmental growth. activation of developmental growth. stimulation of developmental growth. up regulation of developmental growth. up-regulation of developmental growth. upregulation of developmental growth. Any process that activates, maintains or increases the rate of developmental growth.
GO:2000273	positive regulation of signaling receptor activity. positive regulation of signalling receptor activity. Any process that activates or increases the frequency, rate or extent of signaling receptor activity.
GO:0045776	negative regulation of blood pressure. down regulation of blood pressure. down-regulation of blood pressure. downregulation of blood pressure. inhibition of blood pressure. Any process in which the force of blood traveling through the circulatory system is decreased.
GO:0035966	response to topologically incorrect protein. response to misfolded or unfolded protein. Any process that results in a change in state or activity of a cell or an organism (in terms of movement, secretion, enzyme production, gene expression, etc.) as a result of a protein that is not folded in its correct three-dimensional structure.
GO:0051187	obsolete cofactor catabolic process. cofactor breakdown. cofactor catabolism. cofactor degradation. OBSOLETE. The chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the breakdown of a cofactor, a substance that is required for the activity of an enzyme or other protein.
GO:0003071	renal system process involved in regulation of systemic arterial blood pressure. renal control of blood pressure. renal regulation of systemic arterial blood pressure. Renal process that modulates the force with which blood travels through the circulatory system. The process is controlled by a balance of processes that increase pressure and decrease pressure.
GO:0002686	negative regulation of leukocyte migration. down regulation of leukocyte migration. down-regulation of leukocyte migration. downregulation of leukocyte migration. inhibition of leukocyte migration. negative regulation of immune cell migration. negative regulation of leucocyte migration. Any process that stops, prevents, or reduces the frequency, rate, or extent of leukocyte migration.
GO:1905114	cell surface receptor signaling pathway involved in cell-cell signaling. cell surface receptor linked signal transduction involved in cell-cell signaling. cell surface receptor linked signal transduction involved in cell-cell signalling. cell surface receptor linked signaling pathway involved in cell-cell signaling. cell surface receptor linked signaling pathway involved in cell-cell signalling. cell surface receptor linked signalling pathway involved in cell-cell signaling. cell surface receptor linked signalling pathway involved in cell-cell signalling. cell surface receptor signaling pathway involved in cell-cell signalling. Any cell surface receptor signaling pathway that is involved in cell-cell signaling.
GO:0030218	erythrocyte differentiation. erythrocyte cell differentiation. erythropoiesis. RBC differentiation. red blood cell differentiation. The process in which a myeloid precursor cell acquires specializes features of an erythrocyte.
GO:0051193	obsolete regulation of cofactor metabolic process. regulation of cofactor metabolism. OBSOLETE. Any process that modulates the frequency, rate or extent of the chemical reactions and pathways involving a cofactor.
GO:0070884	regulation of calcineurin-NFAT signaling cascade. NFAT protein import into nucleus. regulation of calcineurin-NFAT signaling pathway. regulation of calcineurin-NFAT signalling cascade. regulation of NFAT protein import into nucleus. Any process that modulates the frequency, rate or extent of the calcineurin-NFAT signaling cascade.
GO:0006760	folic acid-containing compound metabolic process. folate and derivative metabolic process. folate and derivative metabolism. folate-containing compound metabolic process. folate-containing compound metabolism. folic acid and derivative metabolic process. folic acid and derivative metabolism. folic acid-containing compound metabolism. vitamin B9 and derivative metabolic process. vitamin B9 and derivative metabolism. vitamin M and derivative metabolic process. vitamin M and derivative metabolism. The chemical reactions and pathways involving a folic acid-containing compound, i.e. any of a group of heterocyclic compounds based on the pteroic acid skeleton conjugated with one or more L-glutamic acid or L-glutamate units.
GO:0098656	anion transmembrane transport. ATP hydrolysis coupled anion transmembrane transport. The process in which an anion is transported across a membrane.
GO:0045923	positive regulation of fatty acid metabolic process. activation of fatty acid metabolic process. positive regulation of fatty acid metabolism. stimulation of fatty acid metabolic process. up regulation of fatty acid metabolic process. up-regulation of fatty acid metabolic process. upregulation of fatty acid metabolic process. Any process that activates or increases the frequency, rate or extent of the chemical reactions and pathways involving fatty acids.
GO:0007369	gastrulation. A complex and coordinated series of cellular movements that occurs at the end of cleavage during embryonic development of most animals. The details of gastrulation vary from species to species, but usually result in the formation of the three primary germ layers, ectoderm, mesoderm and endoderm.
GO:0055025	positive regulation of cardiac muscle tissue development. activation of cardiac muscle development. positive regulation of heart muscle development. stimulation of cardiac muscle development. up regulation of cardiac muscle development. up-regulation of cardiac muscle development. upregulation of cardiac muscle development. Any process that activates, maintains or increases the frequency, rate or extent of cardiac muscle tissue development.
GO:0044782	cilium organization. microtubule-based flagellum organization. A process that is carried out at the cellular level which results in the assembly, arrangement of constituent parts, or disassembly of a cilium, a specialized eukaryotic organelle that consists of a filiform extrusion of the cell surface. Each cilium is bounded by an extrusion of the cytoplasmic membrane, and contains a regular longitudinal array of microtubules, anchored basally in a centriole.
GO:0032495	response to muramyl dipeptide. Any process that results in a change in state or activity of an organism (in terms of movement, secretion, enzyme production, gene expression, etc.) as a result of a muramyl dipeptide stimulus. Muramyl dipeptide is derived from peptidoglycan.
GO:0030001	metal ion transport. divalent metal ion export. divalent metal ion transport. heavy metal ion transport. metal ion export. The directed movement of metal ions, any metal ion with an electric charge, into, out of or within a cell, or between cells, by means of some agent such as a transporter or pore.
GO:0051965	positive regulation of synapse assembly. activation of synapse assembly. positive regulation of synapse biogenesis. positive regulation of synaptogenesis. stimulation of synapse assembly. up regulation of synapse assembly. up-regulation of synapse assembly. upregulation of synapse assembly. Any process that activates, maintains or increases the frequency, rate or extent of synapse assembly, the aggregation, arrangement and bonding together of a set of components to form a synapse.
GO:0034656	nucleobase-containing small molecule catabolic process. nucleobase, nucleoside and nucleotide breakdown. nucleobase, nucleoside and nucleotide catabolism. nucleobase, nucleoside and nucleotide degradation. The chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the breakdown of a nucleobase-containing small molecule: a nucleobase, a nucleoside, or a nucleotide.
GO:0032945	negative regulation of mononuclear cell proliferation. negative regulation of PBMC proliferation. negative regulation of peripheral blood mononuclear cell proliferation. Any process that stops, prevents, or reduces the frequency, rate or extent of mononuclear cell proliferation.
GO:0010608	post-transcriptional regulation of gene expression. posttranscriptional regulation of gene expression. Any process that modulates the frequency, rate or extent of gene expression after the production of an RNA transcript.
GO:0099111	microtubule-based transport. A microtubule-based process that results in the transport of organelles, other microtubules, or other cellular components.  Examples include motor-driven movement along microtubules and movement driven by polymerization or depolymerization of microtubules.
GO:0072088	nephron epithelium morphogenesis. The process in which the anatomical structures of the nephron epithelium are generated and organized. The nephron epithelium is a tissue that covers the surface of a nephron.
GO:0001649	osteoblast differentiation. osteoblast cell differentiation. The process whereby a relatively unspecialized cell acquires the specialized features of an osteoblast, a mesodermal or neural crest cell that gives rise to bone.
GO:0045616	regulation of keratinocyte differentiation. Any process that modulates the frequency, rate or extent of keratinocyte differentiation.
GO:0003300	cardiac muscle hypertrophy. The enlargement or overgrowth of all or part of the heart muscle due to an increase in size of cardiac muscle cells without cell division.
GO:0045429	positive regulation of nitric oxide biosynthetic process. activation of nitric oxide biosynthetic process. positive regulation of nitric oxide anabolism. positive regulation of nitric oxide biosynthesis. positive regulation of nitric oxide formation. positive regulation of nitric oxide synthesis. stimulation of nitric oxide biosynthetic process. up regulation of nitric oxide biosynthetic process. up-regulation of nitric oxide biosynthetic process. upregulation of nitric oxide biosynthetic process. Any process that activates or increases the frequency, rate or extent of the chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the formation of nitric oxide.
GO:0006139	nucleobase-containing compound metabolic process. cellular nucleobase, nucleoside, nucleotide and nucleic acid metabolic process. cellular nucleobase, nucleoside, nucleotide and nucleic acid metabolism. nucleobase, nucleoside and nucleotide metabolic process. nucleobase, nucleoside, nucleotide and nucleic acid metabolic process. nucleobase, nucleoside, nucleotide and nucleic acid metabolism. Any cellular metabolic process involving nucleobases, nucleosides, nucleotides and nucleic acids.
GO:0048208	COPII vesicle coating. COPII coating of ER-derived vesicle. COPII vesicle coat assembly. COPII vesicle coat formation. The addition of COPII proteins and adaptor proteins to ER membranes during the formation of transport vesicles, forming a vesicle coat.
GO:0048710	regulation of astrocyte differentiation. Any process that modulates the frequency, rate or extent of astrocyte differentiation.
GO:0035967	cellular response to topologically incorrect protein. cellular response to misfolded or unfolded protein. Any process that results in a change in state or activity of a cell (in terms of movement, secretion, enzyme production, gene expression, etc.) as a result of a protein that is not folded in its correct three-dimensional structure.
GO:0010738	regulation of protein kinase A signaling. regulation of PKA signaling cascade. regulation of protein kinase A signaling cascade. regulation of protein kinase A signalling cascade. Any process that modulates the rate, frequency, or extent of protein kinase A signaling. PKA signaling is the series of reactions, mediated by the intracellular serine/threonine kinase protein kinase A, which occurs as a result of a single trigger reaction or compound.
GO:0044242	cellular lipid catabolic process. cellular lipid breakdown. cellular lipid catabolism. cellular lipid degradation. The chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the breakdown of lipids, as carried out by individual cells.
GO:0001909	leukocyte mediated cytotoxicity. immune cell mediated cell death. immune cell mediated cell killing. immune cell mediated cytotoxicity. leucocyte mediated cytotoxicity. The directed killing of a target cell by a leukocyte.
GO:0045454	cell redox homeostasis. regulation of cell redox homeostasis. regulation of redox homeostasis. Any process that maintains the redox environment of a cell or compartment within a cell.
GO:0031345	negative regulation of cell projection organization. down regulation of cell projection organization. down-regulation of cell projection organization. downregulation of cell projection organization. inhibition of cell projection organization. negative regulation of cell projection organisation. negative regulation of cell projection organization and biogenesis. Any process that stops, prevents, or reduces the frequency, rate or extent of a process involved in the formation, arrangement of constituent parts, or disassembly of cell projections.
GO:0006586	indolalkylamine metabolic process. indolalkylamine metabolism. indolamine metabolic process. indolamine metabolism. The chemical reactions and pathways involving indolalkylamines, indole or indole derivatives containing a primary, secondary, or tertiary amine group.
GO:0006306	DNA methylation. The covalent transfer of a methyl group to either N-6 of adenine or C-5 or N-4 of cytosine.
GO:0030163	protein catabolic process. cellular protein breakdown. cellular protein catabolic process. cellular protein catabolism. cellular protein degradation. multicellular organismal protein catabolic process. pheromone catabolic process. pheromone catabolism. protein breakdown. protein catabolism. protein degradation. The chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the breakdown of a protein by the destruction of the native, active configuration, with or without the hydrolysis of peptide bonds.
GO:1904385	cellular response to angiotensin. Any process that results in a change in state or activity of a cell (in terms of movement, secretion, enzyme production, gene expression, etc.) as a result of an angiotensin stimulus. Angiotensin is any of three physiologically active peptides (angiotensin II, III, or IV) processed from angiotensinogen.
GO:0043269	regulation of ion transport. Any process that modulates the frequency, rate or extent of the directed movement of charged atoms or small charged molecules into, out of or within a cell, or between cells, by means of some agent such as a transporter or pore.
GO:0006357	regulation of transcription by RNA polymerase II. global transcription regulation from Pol II promoter. regulation of gene-specific transcription from RNA polymerase II promoter. regulation of global transcription from Pol II promoter. regulation of transcription from Pol II promoter. regulation of transcription from RNA polymerase II promoter. regulation of transcription from RNA polymerase II promoter, global. Any process that modulates the frequency, rate or extent of transcription mediated by RNA polymerase II.
GO:0045606	positive regulation of epidermal cell differentiation. activation of epidermal cell differentiation. positive regulation of hypodermal cell differentiation. stimulation of epidermal cell differentiation. up regulation of epidermal cell differentiation. up-regulation of epidermal cell differentiation. upregulation of epidermal cell differentiation. Any process that activates or increases the frequency, rate or extent of epidermal cell differentiation.
GO:0031647	regulation of protein stability. Any process that affects the structure and integrity of a protein, altering the likelihood of its degradation or aggregation.
GO:0043009	chordate embryonic development. The process whose specific outcome is the progression of the embryo over time, from zygote formation through a stage including a notochord and neural tube until birth or egg hatching.
GO:0032727	positive regulation of interferon-alpha production. activation of interferon-alpha production. positive regulation of interferon-alpha biosynthetic process. positive regulation of interferon-alpha secretion. stimulation of interferon-alpha production. up regulation of interferon-alpha production. up-regulation of interferon-alpha production. upregulation of interferon-alpha production. Any process that activates or increases the frequency, rate, or extent of interferon-alpha production.
GO:0006261	DNA-templated DNA replication. DNA-dependent DNA replication. A DNA replication process that uses parental DNA as a template for the DNA-dependent DNA polymerases that synthesize the new strands.
GO:0045061	thymic T cell selection. thymic T lymphocyte selection. thymic T-cell selection. thymic T-lymphocyte selection. The process of T cell selection that occurs in the thymus.
GO:0006471	protein ADP-ribosylation. protein amino acid ADP-ribosylation. The transfer, from NAD, of ADP-ribose to protein amino acids.
GO:0070373	negative regulation of ERK1 and ERK2 cascade. down regulation of ERK1 and ERK2 cascade. down-regulation of ERK1 and ERK2 cascade. downregulation of ERK1 and ERK2 cascade. inhibition of ERK1 and ERK2 cascade. negative regulation of ERK cascade. negative regulation of ERK1 and ERK2 signaling pathway. negative regulation of ERK1 and ERK2 signalling pathway. negative regulation of ERK1 cascade. negative regulation of ERK1/2 cascade. negative regulation of ERK2 cascade. negative regulation of MAPK1 cascade. negative regulation of MAPK3 cascade. Any process that stops, prevents, or reduces the frequency, rate or extent of signal transduction mediated by the ERK1 and ERK2 cascade.
GO:0008150	biological_process. biological process. physiological process. single organism process. single-organism process. A biological process represents a specific objective that the organism is genetically programmed to achieve. Biological processes are often described by their outcome or ending state, e.g., the biological process of cell division results in the creation of two daughter cells (a divided cell) from a single parent cell. A biological process is accomplished by a particular set of molecular functions carried out by specific gene products (or macromolecular complexes), often in a highly regulated manner and in a particular temporal sequence.
GO:1901687	glutathione derivative biosynthetic process. glutathione derivative anabolism. glutathione derivative biosynthesis. glutathione derivative formation. glutathione derivative synthesis. The chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the formation of glutathione derivative.
GO:0006734	NADH metabolic process. NAD (reduced) metabolic process. NAD (reduced) metabolism. NADH metabolism. reduced NAD metabolic process. reduced NAD metabolism. reduced nicotinamide adenine dinucleotide metabolic process. reduced nicotinamide adenine dinucleotide metabolism. The chemical reactions and pathways involving reduced nicotinamide adenine dinucleotide (NADH), a coenzyme present in most living cells and derived from the B vitamin nicotinic acid.
GO:0048667	cell morphogenesis involved in neuron differentiation. neuron morphogenesis involved in differentiation. The process in which the structures of a neuron are generated and organized. This process occurs while the initially relatively unspecialized cell is acquiring the specialized features of a neuron.
GO:0046697	decidualization. decidual cell reaction. The cellular and vascular changes occurring in the endometrium of the pregnant uterus just after the onset of blastocyst implantation. This process involves the proliferation and differentiation of the fibroblast-like endometrial stromal cells into large, polyploid decidual cells that eventually form the maternal component of the placenta.
GO:1900034	regulation of cellular response to heat. regulation of cellular response to heat stress. Any process that modulates the frequency, rate or extent of cellular response to heat.
GO:0065003	protein-containing complex assembly. cellular macromolecule complex assembly. cellular protein complex assembly. cellular protein-containing complex assembly. chaperone activity. macromolecular complex assembly. macromolecule complex assembly. protein complex assembly. protein complex formation. The aggregation, arrangement and bonding together of a set of macromolecules to form a protein-containing complex.
GO:1901137	carbohydrate derivative biosynthetic process. carbohydrate derivative anabolism. carbohydrate derivative biosynthesis. carbohydrate derivative formation. carbohydrate derivative synthesis. The chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the formation of carbohydrate derivative.
GO:0014059	regulation of dopamine secretion. Any process that modulates the frequency, rate or extent of the regulated release of dopamine.
GO:0001959	regulation of cytokine-mediated signaling pathway. regulation of cytokine and chemokine mediated signaling pathway. regulation of cytokine mediated signaling pathway. regulation of cytokine mediated signalling pathway. Any process that modulates the frequency, rate or extent of the cytokine mediated signaling pathway.
GO:0071805	potassium ion transmembrane transport. high affinity potassium ion import. high affinity potassium ion uptake. high-affinity potassium ion import. high-affinity potassium ion uptake. potassium ion membrane transport. A process in which a potassium ion is transported from one side of a membrane to the other.
GO:0032787	monocarboxylic acid metabolic process. monocarboxylate metabolic process. monocarboxylic acid metabolism. The chemical reactions and pathways involving monocarboxylic acids, any organic acid containing one carboxyl (COOH) group or anion (COO-).
GO:0010523	negative regulation of calcium ion transport into cytosol. Any process that decreases the rate of the directed movement of calcium ions into the cytosol of a cell. The cytosol is that part of the cytoplasm that does not contain membranous or particulate subcellular components.
GO:0006469	negative regulation of protein kinase activity. down regulation of protein kinase activity. down-regulation of protein kinase activity. downregulation of protein kinase activity. inhibition of protein kinase activity. Any process that stops, prevents, or reduces the frequency, rate or extent of protein kinase activity.
GO:1902117	positive regulation of organelle assembly. activation of organelle assembly. up regulation of organelle assembly. up-regulation of organelle assembly. upregulation of organelle assembly. Any process that activates or increases the frequency, rate or extent of organelle assembly.
GO:0032930	positive regulation of superoxide anion generation. activation of superoxide release. positive regulation of superoxide release. stimulation of superoxide release. up regulation of superoxide release. up-regulation of superoxide release. upregulation of superoxide release. Any process that activates or increases the frequency, rate or extent of enzymatic generation of superoxide by a cell.
GO:0030278	regulation of ossification. regulation of bone biosynthesis. regulation of bone formation. Any process that modulates the frequency, rate or extent of ossification, the formation of bone or of a bony substance or the conversion of fibrous tissue or of cartilage into bone or a bony substance.
GO:0051094	positive regulation of developmental process. activation of developmental process. stimulation of developmental process. up regulation of developmental process. up-regulation of developmental process. upregulation of developmental process. Any process that activates or increases the rate or extent of development, the biological process whose specific outcome is the progression of an organism over time from an initial condition (e.g. a zygote, or a young adult) to a later condition (e.g. a multicellular animal or an aged adult).
GO:0071300	cellular response to retinoic acid. cellular response to vitamin A acid. Any process that results in a change in state or activity of a cell (in terms of movement, secretion, enzyme production, gene expression, etc.) as a result of a retinoic acid stimulus.
GO:0000723	telomere maintenance. regulation of telomere length. Any process that contributes to the maintenance of proper telomeric length and structure by affecting and monitoring the activity of telomeric proteins, the length of telomeric DNA and the replication and repair of the DNA. These processes includes those that shorten, lengthen, replicate and repair the telomeric DNA sequences.
GO:0031328	positive regulation of cellular biosynthetic process. activation of cellular biosynthetic process. positive regulation of cellular anabolism. positive regulation of cellular biosynthesis. positive regulation of cellular formation. positive regulation of cellular synthesis. stimulation of cellular biosynthetic process. up regulation of cellular biosynthetic process. up-regulation of cellular biosynthetic process. upregulation of cellular biosynthetic process. Any process that activates or increases the frequency, rate or extent of the chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the formation of substances, carried out by individual cells.
GO:1904707	positive regulation of vascular associated smooth muscle cell proliferation. activation of vascular smooth muscle cell proliferation. activation of VSMC proliferation. positive regulation of vascular smooth muscle cell proliferation. positive regulation of VSMC proliferation. up regulation of vascular smooth muscle cell proliferation. up regulation of VSMC proliferation. up-regulation of vascular smooth muscle cell proliferation. up-regulation of VSMC proliferation. upregulation of vascular smooth muscle cell proliferation. upregulation of VSMC proliferation. Any process that activates or increases the frequency, rate or extent of vascular smooth muscle cell proliferation.
GO:0034644	cellular response to UV. cellular response to ultraviolet light stimulus. cellular response to ultraviolet radiation stimulus. cellular response to UV light stimulus. cellular response to UV radiation stimulus. Any process that results in a change in state or activity of a cell (in terms of movement, secretion, enzyme production, gene expression, etc.) as a result of an ultraviolet radiation (UV light) stimulus. Ultraviolet radiation is electromagnetic radiation with a wavelength in the range of 10 to 380 nanometers.
GO:0120162	positive regulation of cold-induced thermogenesis. positive regulation of CIT. Any process that activates or increases the frequency, rate or extent of cold-induced thermogenesis.
GO:0022408	negative regulation of cell-cell adhesion. down regulation of cell-cell adhesion. down-regulation of cell-cell adhesion. downregulation of cell-cell adhesion. inhibition of cell-cell adhesion. Any process that stops, prevents or reduces the rate or extent of cell adhesion to another cell.
GO:0008285	negative regulation of cell population proliferation. down regulation of cell proliferation. down-regulation of cell proliferation. downregulation of cell proliferation. inhibition of cell proliferation. negative regulation of cell proliferation. Any process that stops, prevents or reduces the rate or extent of cell proliferation.
GO:1901264	carbohydrate derivative transport. The directed movement of a carbohydrate derivative into, out of or within a cell, or between cells, by means of some agent such as a transporter or pore.
GO:0007166	cell surface receptor signaling pathway. cell surface receptor linked signal transduction. cell surface receptor linked signaling pathway. cell surface receptor linked signalling pathway. The series of molecular signals initiated by activation of a receptor on the surface of a cell. The pathway begins with binding of an extracellular ligand to a cell surface receptor, or for receptors that signal in the absence of a ligand, by ligand-withdrawal or the activity of a constitutively active receptor. The pathway ends with regulation of a downstream cellular process, e.g. transcription.
GO:0006654	phosphatidic acid biosynthetic process. phosphatidic acid anabolism. phosphatidic acid biosynthesis. phosphatidic acid formation. phosphatidic acid synthesis. The chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the formation of phosphatidic acid, any derivative of glycerol phosphate in which both the remaining hydroxyl groups of the glycerol moiety are esterified with fatty acids.
GO:0009948	anterior/posterior axis specification. anterior/posterior axis determination. The establishment, maintenance and elaboration of the anterior/posterior axis. The anterior-posterior axis is defined by a line that runs from the head or mouth of an organism to the tail or opposite end of the organism.
GO:0072331	signal transduction by p53 class mediator. An intracellular signaling process that is induced by the cell cycle regulator phosphoprotein p53 or an equivalent protein.
GO:0051707	response to other organism. Any process that results in a change in state or activity of a cell or an organism (in terms of movement, secretion, enzyme production, gene expression, etc.) as a result of a stimulus from another living organism.
GO:0010823	negative regulation of mitochondrion organization. negative regulation of mitochondrion organisation. Any process that decreases the frequency, rate or extent of a process involved in the formation, arrangement of constituent parts, or disassembly of a mitochondrion.
GO:0032940	secretion by cell. cellular secretion. The controlled release of a substance by a cell.
GO:0007268	chemical synaptic transmission. neurotransmission. signal transmission across a synapse. synaptic transmission. The vesicular release of classical neurotransmitter molecules from a presynapse, across a chemical synapse, the subsequent activation of neurotransmitter receptors at the postsynapse of a target cell (neuron, muscle, or secretory cell) and the effects of this activation on the postsynaptic membrane potential and ionic composition of the postsynaptic cytosol. This process encompasses both spontaneous and evoked release of neurotransmitter and all parts of synaptic vesicle exocytosis. Evoked transmission starts with the arrival of an action potential at the presynapse.
GO:0001501	skeletal system development. skeletal development. The process whose specific outcome is the progression of the skeleton over time, from its formation to the mature structure. The skeleton is the bony framework of the body in vertebrates (endoskeleton) or the hard outer envelope of insects (exoskeleton or dermoskeleton).
GO:0002003	angiotensin maturation. angiotensin catabolic process in blood. The process leading to the attainment of the full functional capacity of angiotensin by conversion of angiotensinogen into mature angiotensin in the blood.
GO:0017144	xenobiotic metabolic process. drug metabolic process. drug metabolism. xenobiotic metabolism. The chemical reactions and pathways involving a xenobiotic compound, a compound foreign to the organim exposed to it. It may be synthesized by another organism (like ampicilin) or it can be a synthetic chemical.
GO:0031645	negative regulation of nervous system process. down regulation of neurological process. down-regulation of neurological process. downregulation of neurological process. inhibition of neurological process. negative regulation of neurological process. negative regulation of neurological system process. negative regulation of neurophysiological process. Any process that stops, prevents, or reduces the frequency, rate or extent of a neurophysiological process.
GO:0090090	negative regulation of canonical Wnt signaling pathway. negative regulation of canonical Wnt receptor signaling pathway. negative regulation of canonical Wnt receptor signalling pathway. negative regulation of canonical Wnt-activated signaling pathway. negative regulation of catenin import into nucleus. negative regulation of catenin protein nuclear translocation. negative regulation of Wnt receptor signaling pathway through beta-catenin. Any process that decreases the rate, frequency, or extent of the Wnt signaling pathway through beta-catenin, the series of molecular signals initiated by binding of a Wnt protein to a frizzled family receptor on the surface of the target cell, followed by propagation of the signal via beta-catenin, and ending with a change in transcription of target genes.
GO:0045926	negative regulation of growth. down regulation of growth. down-regulation of growth. downregulation of growth. inhibition of growth. Any process that stops, prevents or reduces the rate or extent of growth, the increase in size or mass of all or part of an organism.
GO:0070229	negative regulation of lymphocyte apoptotic process. down regulation of lymphocyte apoptosis. down-regulation of lymphocyte apoptosis. downregulation of lymphocyte apoptosis. inhibition of lymphocyte apoptosis. negative regulation of lymphocyte apoptosis. Any process that stops, prevents, or reduces the frequency, rate or extent of lymphocyte death by apoptotic process.
GO:0070509	calcium ion import. calcium ion uptake. transmembrane calcium influx. The directed movement of calcium ions into a cell or organelle.
GO:0051145	smooth muscle cell differentiation. nonstriated muscle cell differentiation. The process in which a relatively unspecialized cell acquires specialized features of a smooth muscle cell; smooth muscle lacks transverse striations in its constituent fibers and are almost always involuntary.
GO:0050427	3'-phosphoadenosine 5'-phosphosulfate metabolic process. 3'-phosphoadenosine 5'-phosphosulfate metabolism. 3'-phosphoadenosine 5'-phosphosulphate metabolic process. 3'-phosphoadenosine 5'-phosphosulphate metabolism. 3'-phosphoadenylyl-sulfate metabolic process. 3'-phosphoadenylyl-sulfate metabolism. adenosine 3'-phosphate 5'-phosphosulfate metabolic process. adenosine 3'-phosphate 5'-phosphosulfate metabolism. PAPS metabolic process. PAPS metabolism. phosphoadenosine phosphosulfate metabolic process. phosphoadenosine phosphosulfate metabolism. The chemical reactions and pathways involving 3'-phosphoadenosine 5'-phosphosulfate, a naturally occurring mixed anhydride. It is an intermediate in the formation of a variety of sulfo compounds in biological systems.
GO:0010212	response to ionizing radiation. response to ionising radiation. response to ionizing radiation stimulus. Any process that results in a change in state or activity of a cell or an organism (in terms of movement, secretion, enzyme production, gene expression, etc.) as a result of a ionizing radiation stimulus. Ionizing radiation is radiation with sufficient energy to remove electrons from atoms and may arise from spontaneous decay of unstable isotopes, resulting in alpha and beta particles and gamma rays. Ionizing radiation also includes X-rays.
GO:0098761	cellular response to interleukin-7. cellular response to IL-7. Any process that results in a change in state or activity of a cell (in terms of movement, secretion, enzyme production, gene expression, etc.) as a result of an interleukin-7 stimulus.
GO:0042310	vasoconstriction. negative regulation of blood vessel size. A decrease in the diameter of blood vessels, especially arteries, due to constriction of smooth muscle cells that line the vessels, and usually causing an increase in blood pressure.
GO:0071277	cellular response to calcium ion. cellular response to Ca2+ ion. Any process that results in a change in state or activity of a cell (in terms of movement, secretion, enzyme production, gene expression, etc.) as a result of a calcium ion stimulus.
GO:1903203	regulation of oxidative stress-induced neuron death. regulation of neuron death in response to oxidative stress. regulation of neuronal cell death in response to oxidative stress. Any process that modulates the frequency, rate or extent of oxidative stress-induced neuron death.
GO:0035722	interleukin-12-mediated signaling pathway. IL-12-mediated signaling pathway. interleukin-12-mediated signalling pathway. The series of molecular signals initiated by interleukin-12 binding to its receptor on the surface of a target cell, and ending with the regulation of a downstream cellular process, e.g. transcription.
GO:0051898	negative regulation of protein kinase B signaling. down regulation of protein kinase B signaling cascade. down-regulation of protein kinase B signaling cascade. downregulation of protein kinase B signaling cascade. inhibition of protein kinase B signaling cascade. negative regulation of AKT signaling cascade. negative regulation of AKT signalling cascade. negative regulation of PKB signaling cascade. negative regulation of PKB signalling cascade. negative regulation of protein kinase B signaling cascade. negative regulation of protein kinase B signalling cascade. Any process that stops, prevents, or reduces the frequency, rate or extent of protein kinase B signaling, a series of reactions mediated by the intracellular serine/threonine kinase protein kinase B.
GO:0051968	positive regulation of synaptic transmission, glutamatergic. activation of synaptic transmission, glutamatergic. stimulation of synaptic transmission, glutamatergic. up regulation of synaptic transmission, glutamatergic. up-regulation of synaptic transmission, glutamatergic. upregulation of synaptic transmission, glutamatergic. Any process that activates, maintains or increases the frequency, rate or extent of glutamatergic synaptic transmission, the process of communication from a neuron to another neuron across a synapse using the neurotransmitter glutamate.
GO:0060348	bone development. The process whose specific outcome is the progression of bone over time, from its formation to the mature structure. Bone is the hard skeletal connective tissue consisting of both mineral and cellular components.
GO:0060415	muscle tissue morphogenesis. The process in which the anatomical structures of muscle tissue are generated and organized. Muscle tissue consists of a set of cells that are part of an organ and carry out a contractive function.
GO:0030308	negative regulation of cell growth. down regulation of cell growth. down-regulation of cell growth. downregulation of cell growth. inhibition of cell growth. Any process that stops, prevents, or reduces the frequency, rate, extent or direction of cell growth.
GO:0051091	positive regulation of DNA-binding transcription factor activity. activation of transcription factor activity. positive regulation of DNA binding transcription factor activity. positive regulation of sequence-specific DNA binding transcription factor activity. positive regulation of thyroid hormone receptor activity. positive regulation of transcription factor activity. stimulation of transcription factor activity. up regulation of transcription factor activity. up-regulation of transcription factor activity. upregulation of transcription factor activity. Any process that activates or increases the frequency, rate or extent of activity of a transcription factor, any factor involved in the initiation or regulation of transcription.
GO:0016236	macroautophagy. autophagy. The major inducible pathway for the general turnover of cytoplasmic constituents in eukaryotic cells, it is also responsible for the degradation of active cytoplasmic enzymes and organelles during nutrient starvation. Macroautophagy involves the formation of double-membrane-bounded autophagosomes which enclose the cytoplasmic constituent targeted for degradation in a membrane-bounded structure.  Autophagosomes then fuse with a lysosome (or vacuole) releasing single-membrane-bounded autophagic bodies that are then degraded within the lysosome (or vacuole). Some types of macroautophagy, e.g. pexophagy, mitophagy, involve selective targeting of the targets to be degraded.
GO:0007416	synapse assembly. synapse biogenesis. synaptogenesis. The aggregation, arrangement and bonding together of a set of components to form a synapse.  This process ends when the synapse is mature (functional).
GO:0090150	establishment of protein localization to membrane. establishment of protein localisation in membrane. establishment of protein localization in membrane. The directed movement of a protein to a specific location in a membrane.
GO:0021955	central nervous system neuron axonogenesis. Generation of a long process from a neuron whose cell body resides in the central nervous system. The process carries efferent (outgoing) action potentials from the cell body towards target cells.
GO:0035725	sodium ion transmembrane transport. sodium ion membrane transport. A process in which a sodium ion is transported from one side of a membrane to the other by means of some agent such as a transporter or pore.
GO:0002889	regulation of immunoglobulin mediated immune response. Any process that modulates the frequency, rate, or extent of an immunoglobulin mediated immune response.
GO:0031111	negative regulation of microtubule polymerization or depolymerization. down regulation of microtubule polymerization or depolymerization. down-regulation of microtubule polymerization or depolymerization. downregulation of microtubule polymerization or depolymerization. inhibition of microtubule polymerization or depolymerization. Any process that stops, prevents, or reduces the frequency, rate or extent of microtubule polymerization or depolymerization.
GO:0060173	limb development. limb bud development. paired limb/fin development. The process whose specific outcome is the progression of a limb over time, from its formation to the mature structure. A limb is an appendage of an animal used for locomotion or grasping. Examples include legs, arms or some types of fin.
GO:0010453	regulation of cell fate commitment. Any process that modulates the frequency, rate or extent of cell fate commitment. Cell fate commitment is the commitment of cells to specific cell fates and their capacity to differentiate into particular kinds of cells. Positional information is established through protein signals that emanate from a localized source within a cell (the initial one-cell zygote) or within a developmental field.
GO:0030036	actin cytoskeleton organization. actin cytoskeleton organisation. actin cytoskeleton organization and biogenesis. actin modulating activity. A process that is carried out at the cellular level which results in the assembly, arrangement of constituent parts, or disassembly of cytoskeletal structures comprising actin filaments and their associated proteins.
GO:1902692	regulation of neuroblast proliferation. Any process that modulates the frequency, rate or extent of neuroblast proliferation.
GO:0044320	cellular response to leptin stimulus. Any process that results in a change in state or activity of a cell (in terms of movement, secretion, enzyme production, gene expression, etc.) as a result of a leptin stimulus. Leptin is a hormone manufactured primarily in the adipocytes of white adipose tissue, and the level of circulating leptin is directly proportional to the total amount of fat in the body. It plays a key role in regulating energy intake and energy expenditure, including appetite and metabolism.
GO:0007018	microtubule-based movement. A microtubule-based process that results in the movement of organelles, other microtubules, or other cellular components.  Examples include motor-driven movement along microtubules and movement driven by polymerization or depolymerization of microtubules.
GO:0006767	water-soluble vitamin metabolic process. water-soluble vitamin metabolism. The chemical reactions and pathways involving any of a diverse group of vitamins that are soluble in water.
GO:0019941	modification-dependent protein catabolic process. modification-dependent protein breakdown. modification-dependent protein catabolism. modification-dependent protein degradation. modification-dependent proteolysis. modification-initiated protein catabolic process. modification-initiated protein catabolism. modification-initiated proteolysis. protein degradation tagging activity. protein-ligand-dependent protein catabolic process. protein-ligand-dependent protein catabolism. The chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the breakdown of a protein or peptide by hydrolysis of its peptide bonds, initiated by the covalent modification of the target protein.
GO:0030900	forebrain development. prosencephalon development. The process whose specific outcome is the progression of the forebrain over time, from its formation to the mature structure. The forebrain is the anterior of the three primary divisions of the developing chordate brain or the corresponding part of the adult brain (in vertebrates, includes especially the cerebral hemispheres, the thalamus, and the hypothalamus and especially in higher vertebrates is the main control center for sensory and associative information processing, visceral functions, and voluntary motor functions).
GO:0050927	positive regulation of positive chemotaxis. activation of positive chemotaxis. stimulation of positive chemotaxis. up regulation of positive chemotaxis. up-regulation of positive chemotaxis. upregulation of positive chemotaxis. Any process that activates or increases the frequency, rate or extent of the directed movement of a motile cell or organism towards a higher concentration in a concentration gradient of a specific chemical.
GO:2000112	regulation of cellular macromolecule biosynthetic process. regulation of cellular biopolymer biosynthetic process. regulation of cellular macromolecule anabolism. regulation of cellular macromolecule biosynthesis. regulation of cellular macromolecule formation. regulation of cellular macromolecule synthesis. Any process that modulates the frequency, rate or extent of cellular macromolecule biosynthetic process.
GO:1902904	negative regulation of supramolecular fiber organization. down regulation of fibril organisation. down regulation of fibril organization. down-regulation of fibril organisation. down-regulation of fibril organization. downregulation of fibril organisation. downregulation of fibril organization. inhibition of fibril organisation. inhibition of fibril organization. negative regulation of fibril organisation. Any process that stops, prevents or reduces the frequency, rate or extent of fibril organization.
GO:0051952	regulation of amine transport. Any process that modulates the frequency, rate or extent of the directed movement of amines into, out of or within a cell, or between cells, by means of some agent such as a transporter or pore.
GO:0002252	immune effector process. Any process of the immune system that executes a component of an immune response. An effector immune process takes place after its activation.
GO:0050995	negative regulation of lipid catabolic process. down regulation of lipid catabolic process. down-regulation of lipid catabolic process. downregulation of lipid catabolic process. inhibition of lipid catabolic process. negative regulation of lipid breakdown. negative regulation of lipid catabolism. negative regulation of lipid degradation. Any process that stops, prevents, or reduces the frequency, rate or extent of the chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the breakdown of lipids.
GO:0001935	endothelial cell proliferation. The multiplication or reproduction of endothelial cells, resulting in the expansion of a cell population. Endothelial cells are thin flattened cells which line the inside surfaces of body cavities, blood vessels, and lymph vessels, making up the endothelium.
GO:0043473	pigmentation. The accumulation of pigment in an organism, tissue or cell, either by increased deposition or by increased number of cells.
GO:0007267	cell-cell signaling. cell-cell signalling. Any process that mediates the transfer of information from one cell to another. This process includes signal transduction in the receiving cell and, where applicable, release of a ligand and any processes that actively facilitate its transport and presentation to the receiving cell.  Examples include signaling via soluble ligands, via cell adhesion molecules and via gap junctions.
GO:0010744	positive regulation of macrophage derived foam cell differentiation. Any process that increases the rate, frequency or extent of macrophage derived foam cell differentiation. Macrophage derived foam cell differentiation is the process in which a macrophage acquires the specialized features of a foam cell. A foam cell is a type of cell containing lipids in small vacuoles and typically seen in atherosclerotic lesions, as well as other conditions.
GO:0046622	positive regulation of organ growth. Any process that activates or increases the frequency, rate or extent of growth of an organ of an organism.
GO:0008361	regulation of cell size. cell size control. Any process that modulates the size of a cell.
GO:0006928	obsolete movement of cell or subcellular component. cell movement. cellular component motion. cellular component movement. OBSOLETE. The directed, self-propelled movement of a cell or subcellular component without the involvement of an external agent such as a transporter or a pore.
GO:0010043	response to zinc ion. response to zinc. Any process that results in a change in state or activity of a cell or an organism (in terms of movement, secretion, enzyme production, gene expression, etc.) as a result of a zinc ion stimulus.
GO:0006511	ubiquitin-dependent protein catabolic process. myofibrillar protein ubiquitination during ubiquitin-dependent protein breakdown. myofibrillar protein ubiquitination during ubiquitin-dependent protein catabolic process. myofibrillar protein ubiquitination during ubiquitin-dependent protein catabolism. myofibrillar protein ubiquitination during ubiquitin-dependent protein degradation. protein degradation tagging activity. protein ubiquitination during ubiquitin-dependent protein breakdown. protein ubiquitination during ubiquitin-dependent protein catabolic process. protein ubiquitination during ubiquitin-dependent protein catabolism. protein ubiquitination during ubiquitin-dependent protein degradation. protein ubiquitination involved in ubiquitin-dependent protein catabolic process. protein ubiquitinylation during ubiquitin-dependent protein catabolic process. protein ubiquitinylation during ubiquitin-dependent protein catabolism. protein ubiquitylation during ubiquitin-dependent protein catabolic process. protein ubiquitylation during ubiquitin-dependent protein catabolism. ubiquitin-dependent protein breakdown. ubiquitin-dependent protein catabolism. ubiquitin-dependent protein degradation. ubiquitin-dependent proteolysis. The chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the breakdown of a protein or peptide by hydrolysis of its peptide bonds, initiated by the covalent attachment of a ubiquitin group, or multiple ubiquitin groups, to the protein.
GO:0043603	cellular amide metabolic process. amide metabolism. The chemical reactions and pathways involving an amide, any derivative of an oxoacid in which an acidic hydroxy group has been replaced by an amino or substituted amino group, as carried out by individual cells.
GO:0010460	positive regulation of heart rate. Any process that activates or increases the frequency or rate of heart contraction.
GO:0042177	negative regulation of protein catabolic process. down regulation of cellular protein breakdown. down regulation of cellular protein catabolic process. down regulation of cellular protein catabolism. down regulation of cellular protein degradation. down regulation of protein catabolic process. down-regulation of cellular protein breakdown. down-regulation of cellular protein catabolic process. down-regulation of cellular protein catabolism. down-regulation of cellular protein degradation. down-regulation of protein catabolic process. downregulation of cellular protein breakdown. downregulation of cellular protein catabolic process. downregulation of cellular protein catabolism. downregulation of cellular protein degradation. downregulation of protein catabolic process. inhibition of cellular protein breakdown. inhibition of cellular protein catabolic process. inhibition of cellular protein catabolism. inhibition of cellular protein degradation. inhibition of protein catabolic process. negative regulation of cellular protein breakdown. negative regulation of cellular protein catabolic process. negative regulation of cellular protein catabolism. negative regulation of cellular protein degradation. negative regulation of protein breakdown. negative regulation of protein catabolism. negative regulation of protein degradation. Any process that stops, prevents or reduces the frequency, rate or extent of protein catabolic process.
GO:0034405	response to fluid shear stress. Any process that results in a change in state or activity of a cell or an organism (in terms of movement, secretion, enzyme production, gene expression, etc.) as a result of a fluid shear stress stimulus. Fluid shear stress is the force acting on an object in a system where the fluid is moving across a solid surface.
GO:0043403	skeletal muscle tissue regeneration. myofiber turnover. The regrowth of skeletal muscle tissue to repair injured or damaged muscle fibers in the postnatal stage.
GO:0045055	regulated exocytosis. regulated secretory pathway. A process of exocytosis in which soluble proteins and other substances are initially stored in secretory vesicles for later release. It is found mainly in cells that are specialized for secreting products such as hormones, neurotransmitters, or digestive enzymes rapidly on demand.
GO:0046165	alcohol biosynthetic process. alcohol anabolism. alcohol biosynthesis. alcohol formation. alcohol synthesis. The chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the formation of alcohols, any of a class of compounds containing one or more hydroxyl groups attached to a saturated carbon atom.
GO:0043687	post-translational protein modification. post-translational amino acid modification. post-translational modification. posttranslational amino acid modification. posttranslational modification. posttranslational protein modification. PTM. The process of covalently altering one or more amino acids in a protein after the protein has been completely translated and released from the ribosome.
GO:0009894	regulation of catabolic process. regulation of breakdown. regulation of catabolism. regulation of degradation. Any process that modulates the frequency, rate, or extent of the chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the breakdown of substances.
GO:0036473	cell death in response to oxidative stress. Any biological process that results in permanent cessation of all vital functions of a cell upon exposure to an oxidative stress stimulus.
GO:0002562	somatic diversification of immune receptors via germline recombination within a single locus. The process in which immune receptor genes are diversified through recombination of the germline genetic elements within a single genetic locus.
GO:0051606	detection of stimulus. perception of stimulus. stimulus detection. stimulus sensing. The series of events in which a stimulus is received by a cell or organism and converted into a molecular signal.
GO:0030282	bone mineralization. bone calcification. The deposition of hydroxyapatite, a form of calcium phosphate with the formula Ca10(PO4)6(OH)2, in bone tissue.
GO:0055010	ventricular cardiac muscle tissue morphogenesis. cardiac ventricle muscle morphogenesis. ventricular heart muscle morphogenesis. The process in which the anatomical structures of cardiac ventricle muscle is generated and organized.
GO:0035987	endodermal cell differentiation. endoderm cell differentiation. The process in which a relatively unspecialized cell acquires the specialized features of an endoderm cell, a cell of the inner of the three germ layers of the embryo.
GO:0002931	response to ischemia. Any process that results in a change in state or activity of an organism (in terms of movement, secretion, enzyme production, gene expression, etc.) as a result of a inadequate blood supply.
GO:0061136	regulation of proteasomal protein catabolic process. Any process that modulates the rate, frequency, or extent of the chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the breakdown of a protein or peptide by hydrolysis of its peptide bonds that is mediated by the proteasome.
GO:0001912	positive regulation of leukocyte mediated cytotoxicity. activation of leukocyte mediated cytotoxicity. positive regulation of immune cell mediated cytotoxicity. positive regulation of leucocyte mediated cytotoxicity. stimulation of leukocyte mediated cytotoxicity. up regulation of leukocyte mediated cytotoxicity. up-regulation of leukocyte mediated cytotoxicity. upregulation of leukocyte mediated cytotoxicity. Any process that activates or increases the frequency, rate or extent of leukocyte mediated cytotoxicity.
GO:0048873	homeostasis of number of cells within a tissue. Any biological process involved in the maintenance of the steady-state number of cells within a population of cells in a tissue.
GO:0007600	sensory perception. The series of events required for an organism to receive a sensory stimulus, convert it to a molecular signal, and recognize and characterize the signal. This is a neurological process.
GO:0031281	positive regulation of cyclase activity. activation of cyclase activity. stimulation of cyclase activity. up regulation of cyclase activity. up-regulation of cyclase activity. upregulation of cyclase activity. Any process that activates or increases the activity of a cyclase.
GO:0046112	nucleobase biosynthetic process. nucleobase anabolism. nucleobase biosynthesis. nucleobase formation. nucleobase synthesis. The chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the formation of a nucleobase, a nitrogenous base that is a constituent of a nucleic acid.
GO:0032410	negative regulation of transporter activity. down regulation of transporter activity. down-regulation of transporter activity. downregulation of transporter activity. inhibition of transporter activity. Any process that stops or reduces the activity of a transporter.
GO:0006091	generation of precursor metabolites and energy. energy pathways. intermediary metabolism. metabolic energy generation. The chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the formation of precursor metabolites, substances from which energy is derived, and any process involved in the liberation of energy from these substances.
GO:0043085	positive regulation of catalytic activity. activation of enzyme activity. activation of metalloenzyme activity. positive regulation of enzyme activity. positive regulation of metalloenzyme activity. stimulation of enzyme activity. stimulation of metalloenzyme activity. up regulation of enzyme activity. up regulation of metalloenzyme activity. up-regulation of enzyme activity. up-regulation of metalloenzyme activity. upregulation of enzyme activity. upregulation of metalloenzyme activity. Any process that activates or increases the activity of an enzyme.
GO:0045732	positive regulation of protein catabolic process. activation of cellular protein breakdown. activation of cellular protein catabolic process. activation of cellular protein catabolism. activation of cellular protein degradation. activation of protein catabolic process. positive regulation of cellular protein breakdown. positive regulation of cellular protein catabolic process. positive regulation of cellular protein catabolism. positive regulation of cellular protein degradation. positive regulation of cyclin breakdown. positive regulation of cyclin catabolic process. positive regulation of cyclin catabolism. positive regulation of cyclin degradation. positive regulation of degradation of cyclin. positive regulation of protein breakdown. positive regulation of protein catabolism. positive regulation of protein degradation. stimulation of protein catabolic process. up regulation of cellular protein breakdown. up regulation of cellular protein catabolic process. up regulation of cellular protein catabolism. up regulation of cellular protein degradation. up regulation of protein catabolic process. up-regulation of cellular protein breakdown. up-regulation of cellular protein catabolic process. up-regulation of cellular protein catabolism. up-regulation of cellular protein degradation. up-regulation of protein catabolic process. upregulation of cellular protein breakdown. upregulation of cellular protein catabolic process. upregulation of cellular protein catabolism. upregulation of cellular protein degradation. upregulation of protein catabolic process. Any process that activates or increases the frequency, rate or extent of the chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the breakdown of a protein by the destruction of the native, active configuration, with or without the hydrolysis of peptide bonds.
GO:0006656	phosphatidylcholine biosynthetic process. phosphatidylcholine anabolism. phosphatidylcholine biosynthesis. phosphatidylcholine formation. phosphatidylcholine synthesis. The chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the formation of phosphatidylcholines, any of a class of glycerophospholipids in which the phosphatidyl group is esterified to the hydroxyl group of choline.
GO:0043950	positive regulation of cAMP-mediated signaling. positive regulation of cAMP-mediated signalling. Any process which activates, maintains or increases the frequency, rate or extent of cAMP-mediated signaling.
GO:0006885	regulation of pH. hydrogen ion homeostasis. Any process involved in the maintenance of an internal equilibrium of hydrogen ions, thereby modulating the internal pH, within an organism or cell.
GO:2000113	negative regulation of cellular macromolecule biosynthetic process. negative regulation of cellular biopolymer biosynthetic process. negative regulation of cellular macromolecule anabolism. negative regulation of cellular macromolecule biosynthesis. negative regulation of cellular macromolecule formation. negative regulation of cellular macromolecule synthesis. Any process that stops, prevents, or reduces the frequency, rate or extent of cellular macromolecule biosynthetic process.
GO:2000272	negative regulation of signaling receptor activity. negative regulation of receptor activity. negative regulation of signalling receptor activity. Any process that stops, prevents or reduces the frequency, rate or extent of a signaling receptor activity.
GO:0042254	ribosome biogenesis. ribosome biogenesis and assembly. A cellular process that results in the biosynthesis of constituent macromolecules, assembly, and arrangement of constituent parts of ribosome subunits; includes transport to the sites of protein synthesis.
GO:0001774	microglial cell activation. The change in morphology and behavior of a microglial cell resulting from exposure to a cytokine, chemokine, cellular ligand, or soluble factor.
GO:0051129	negative regulation of cellular component organization. down regulation of cell organization. down-regulation of cell organization. downregulation of cell organization. inhibition of cell organization. negative regulation of cell organisation. negative regulation of cellular component organization and biogenesis. Any process that stops, prevents, or reduces the frequency, rate or extent of a process involved in the formation, arrangement of constituent parts, or disassembly of cell structures, including the plasma membrane and any external encapsulating structures such as the cell wall and cell envelope.
GO:0055017	cardiac muscle tissue growth. heart muscle growth. The increase in size or mass of a cardiac muscle, where the increase in size or mass has the specific outcome of the progression of the organism over time from one condition to another.
GO:0051384	response to glucocorticoid. response to glucocorticoid stimulus. Any process that results in a change in state or activity of a cell or an organism (in terms of movement, secretion, enzyme production, gene expression, etc.) as a result of a glucocorticoid stimulus. Glucocorticoids are hormonal C21 corticosteroids synthesized from cholesterol with the ability to bind with the cortisol receptor and trigger similar effects. Glucocorticoids act primarily on carbohydrate and protein metabolism, and have anti-inflammatory effects.
GO:0045862	positive regulation of proteolysis. activation of proteolysis. positive regulation of peptidolysis. stimulation of proteolysis. up regulation of proteolysis. up-regulation of proteolysis. upregulation of proteolysis. Any process that activates or increases the frequency, rate or extent of the hydrolysis of a peptide bond or bonds within a protein.
GO:0060627	regulation of vesicle-mediated transport. Any process that modulates the rate, frequency, or extent of vesicle-mediated transport, the directed movement of substances, either within a vesicle or in the vesicle membrane, into, out of or within a cell.
GO:0006855	xenobiotic transmembrane transport. drug membrane transport. drug transmembrane transport. multidrug transport. The process in which a xenobiotic, a compound foreign to the organim exposed to it, is transported across a membrane. It may be synthesized by another organism (like ampicilin) or it can be a synthetic chemical.
GO:0051900	regulation of mitochondrial depolarization. Any process that modulates the frequency, rate or extent of the change in the membrane potential of the mitochondria from negative to positive.
GO:1901615	organic hydroxy compound metabolic process. organic hydroxy compound metabolism. The chemical reactions and pathways involving organic hydroxy compound.
GO:0070932	histone H3 deacetylation. The modification of histone H3 by the removal of one or more acetyl groups.
GO:0051028	mRNA transport. The directed movement of mRNA, messenger ribonucleic acid, into, out of or within a cell, or between cells, by means of some agent such as a transporter or pore.
GO:0060711	labyrinthine layer development. The process in which the labyrinthine layer of the placenta progresses, from its formation to its mature state.
GO:0050900	leukocyte migration. immune cell migration. immune cell trafficking. leucocyte migration. leucocyte trafficking. leukocyte trafficking. The movement of a leukocyte within or between different tissues and organs of the body.
GO:0045637	regulation of myeloid cell differentiation. Any process that modulates the frequency, rate or extent of myeloid cell differentiation.
GO:0071364	cellular response to epidermal growth factor stimulus. cellular response to EGF stimulus. Any process that results in a change in state or activity of a cell (in terms of movement, secretion, enzyme production, gene expression, etc.) as a result of an epidermal growth factor stimulus.
GO:0050857	positive regulation of antigen receptor-mediated signaling pathway. activation of antigen receptor-mediated signaling pathway. positive regulation of antigen receptor mediated signalling pathway. stimulation of antigen receptor-mediated signaling pathway. up regulation of antigen receptor-mediated signaling pathway. up-regulation of antigen receptor-mediated signaling pathway. upregulation of antigen receptor-mediated signaling pathway. Any process that activates or increases the frequency, rate or extent of signaling pathways initiated by the cross-linking of an antigen receptor on a B- or T cell.
GO:0051259	protein complex oligomerization. protein multimerization. protein oligomer assembly. protein oligomer biosynthesis. protein oligomer biosynthetic process. protein oligomer formation. protein oligomerization. The process of creating protein oligomers, compounds composed of a small number, usually between three and ten, of component monomers; protein oligomers may be composed of different or identical monomers. Oligomers may be formed by the polymerization of a number of monomers or the depolymerization of a large protein polymer.
GO:0006066	alcohol metabolic process. alcohol metabolism. The chemical reactions and pathways involving alcohols, any of a class of compounds containing one or more hydroxyl groups attached to a saturated carbon atom.
GO:0005975	carbohydrate metabolic process. carbohydrate metabolism. The chemical reactions and pathways involving carbohydrates, any of a group of organic compounds based of the general formula Cx(H2O)y.
GO:0010468	regulation of gene expression. gene regulation. regulation of gene product expression. regulation of protein expression. Any process that modulates the frequency, rate or extent of gene expression. Gene expression is the process in which a gene's coding sequence is converted into a mature gene product (protein or RNA).
GO:0009988	cell-cell recognition. Cell recognition between cells. May involve the formation of specialized cell junctions.
GO:0034440	lipid oxidation. The removal of one or more electrons from a lipid, with or without the concomitant removal of a proton or protons, by reaction with an electron-accepting substance, by addition of oxygen or by removal of hydrogen.
GO:0019438	aromatic compound biosynthetic process. aromatic compound anabolism. aromatic compound biosynthesis. aromatic compound formation. aromatic compound synthesis. aromatic hydrocarbon biosynthesis. aromatic hydrocarbon biosynthetic process. The chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the formation of aromatic compounds, any substance containing an aromatic carbon ring.
GO:0015695	organic cation transport. The directed movement of organic cations into, out of or within a cell, or between cells, by means of some agent such as a transporter or pore. Organic cations are atoms or small molecules with a positive charge which contain carbon in covalent linkage.
GO:0045930	negative regulation of mitotic cell cycle. down regulation of progression through mitotic cell cycle. down-regulation of progression through mitotic cell cycle. downregulation of progression through mitotic cell cycle. inhibition of progression through mitotic cell cycle. negative regulation of mitotic cell cycle progression. negative regulation of progression through mitotic cell cycle. Any process that stops, prevents or reduces the rate or extent of progression through the mitotic cell cycle.
GO:0097164	ammonium ion metabolic process. ammonium ion metabolism. ammonium metabolic process. The chemical reactions and pathways involving the ammonium ion.
GO:0019233	sensory perception of pain. nociception. perception of physiological pain. The series of events required for an organism to receive a painful stimulus, convert it to a molecular signal, and recognize and characterize the signal. Pain is medically defined as the physical sensation of discomfort or distress caused by injury or illness, so can hence be described as a harmful stimulus which signals current (or impending) tissue damage. Pain may come from extremes of temperature, mechanical damage, electricity or from noxious chemical substances. This is a neurological process.
GO:0086019	cell-cell signaling involved in cardiac conduction. cell-cell signalling involved in cardiac conduction. Any process that mediates the transfer of information from one cell to another and contributes to the heart process that regulates cardiac muscle contraction; beginning with the generation of an action potential in the sinoatrial node and ending with regulation of contraction of the myocardium.
GO:0001889	liver development. The process whose specific outcome is the progression of the liver over time, from its formation to the mature structure. The liver is an exocrine gland which secretes bile and functions in metabolism of protein and carbohydrate and fat, synthesizes substances involved in the clotting of the blood, synthesizes vitamin A, detoxifies poisonous substances, stores glycogen, and breaks down worn-out erythrocytes.
GO:0000038	very long-chain fatty acid metabolic process. very long chain fatty acid metabolic process. very-long-chain fatty acid metabolic process. very-long-chain fatty acid metabolism. The chemical reactions and pathways involving a fatty acid which has a chain length greater than C22.
GO:0050806	positive regulation of synaptic transmission. activation of synaptic transmission. stimulation of synaptic transmission. up regulation of synaptic transmission. up-regulation of synaptic transmission. upregulation of synaptic transmission. Any process that activates or increases the frequency, rate or extent of synaptic transmission, the process of communication from a neuron to a target (neuron, muscle, or secretory cell) across a synapse.
GO:0007265	Ras protein signal transduction. Ras mediated signal transduction. The series of molecular signals within the cell that are mediated by a member of the Ras superfamily of proteins switching to a GTP-bound active state.
GO:0045165	cell fate commitment. The commitment of cells to specific cell fates and their capacity to differentiate into particular kinds of cells. Positional information is established through protein signals that emanate from a localized source within a cell (the initial one-cell zygote) or within a developmental field.
GO:0002407	dendritic cell chemotaxis. The movement of a dendritic cell in response to an external stimulus.
GO:0051054	positive regulation of DNA metabolic process. activation of DNA metabolic process. positive regulation of DNA metabolism. stimulation of DNA metabolic process. up regulation of DNA metabolic process. up-regulation of DNA metabolic process. upregulation of DNA metabolic process. Any process that activates or increases the frequency, rate or extent of the chemical reactions and pathways involving DNA.
GO:0051438	regulation of ubiquitin-protein transferase activity. anaphase-promoting complex regulator. APC regulator. regulation of ubiquitin transferase activity. SCF complex regulator. ubiquitin transferase regulator. ubiquitin-protein transferase regulator. Any process that modulates the frequency, rate or extent of ubiquitin transferase activity.
GO:0045844	positive regulation of striated muscle tissue development. activation of striated muscle development. stimulation of striated muscle development. up regulation of striated muscle development. up-regulation of striated muscle development. upregulation of striated muscle development. Any process that activates or increases the frequency, rate or extent of striated muscle development.
GO:0055093	response to hyperoxia. response to hyperoxic stress. response to increased oxygen tension. Any process that results in a change in state or activity of a cell or an organism (in terms of movement, secretion, enzyme production, gene expression, etc.) as a result of a stimulus indicating increased oxygen tension.
GO:1902105	regulation of leukocyte differentiation. regulation of immune cell differentiation. regulation of leucocyte differentiation. Any process that modulates the frequency, rate or extent of leukocyte differentiation.
GO:0042176	regulation of protein catabolic process. regulation of cellular protein breakdown. regulation of cellular protein catabolic process. regulation of cellular protein catabolism. regulation of cellular protein degradation. regulation of cyclin breakdown. regulation of cyclin catabolic process. regulation of cyclin catabolism. regulation of cyclin degradation. regulation of degradation of cyclin. regulation of protein breakdown. regulation of protein catabolism. regulation of protein degradation. Any process that modulates the frequency, rate or extent of the chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the breakdown of a protein by the destruction of the native, active configuration, with or without the hydrolysis of peptide bonds.
GO:2000142	regulation of DNA-templated transcription initiation. regulation of DNA-dependent transcription, initiation. regulation of DNA-templated transcription, initiation. regulation of initiation of DNA-dependent transcription. regulation of transcription initiation, DNA-dependent. Any process that modulates the frequency, rate or extent of DNA-templated transcription initiation.
GO:0043281	regulation of cysteine-type endopeptidase activity involved in apoptotic process. regulation of caspase activation. regulation of caspase activity. Any process that modulates the activity of a cysteine-type endopeptidase involved in apoptosis.
GO:0060249	anatomical structure homeostasis. anatomical structure maintenance. A homeostatic process involved in the maintenance of an internal steady state within a defined anatomical structure of an organism, including control of cellular proliferation and death and control of metabolic function. An anatomical structure is any biological entity that occupies space and is distinguished from its surroundings. Anatomical structures can be macroscopic such as a carpel, or microscopic such as an acrosome.
GO:0048598	embryonic morphogenesis. embryonic anatomical structure morphogenesis. The process in which anatomical structures are generated and organized during the embryonic phase. The embryonic phase begins with zygote formation. The end of the embryonic phase is organism-specific. For example, it would be at birth for mammals, larval hatching for insects and seed dormancy in plants.
GO:0030449	regulation of complement activation. regulation of complement cascade. Any process that modulates the frequency, rate or extent of complement activation.
GO:0002755	MyD88-dependent toll-like receptor signaling pathway. MyD88-dependent TLR signaling pathway. MyD88-dependent toll-like receptor signalling pathway. A toll-like receptor signaling pathway in which the MyD88 adaptor molecule mediates transduction of the signal. Toll-like receptors directly bind pattern motifs from a variety of microbial sources to initiate an innate immune response.
GO:0071157	regulation of cell cycle. arrest of mitotic cell cycle progression. cell cycle arrest. cell cycle modulation. cell cycle regulation. cell cycle regulator. control of cell cycle progression. mitotic cell cycle arrest. modulation of cell cycle progression. negative regulation of cell cycle arrest. positive regulation of cell cycle arrest. regulation of cell cycle arrest. regulation of cell cycle progression. regulation of progression through cell cycle. tumor suppressor. Any process that modulates the rate or extent of progression through the cell cycle.
GO:0036498	IRE1-mediated unfolded protein response. endoplasmic reticulum unfolded protein response; IRE1 signaling. ERN1-mediated unfolded protein response. inositol-requiring enzyme 1-mediated unfolded protein response. inositol-requiring transmembrane kinase/endonuclease signal transduction. IRE1 branch of UPR. IRE1 signal transduction pathway. IRE1 signaling in response to endoplasmic reticulum stress. IRE1alpha unfolded protein response. IRE1p unfolded protein response. UPR signaling by IRE1 stress sensor. The series of molecular signals mediated by the endoplasmic reticulum stress sensor IRE1 (Inositol-requiring transmembrane kinase/endonuclease). Begins with activation of IRE1 in response to endoplasmic reticulum (ER) stress, and ends with regulation of a downstream cellular process, e.g. transcription. One target of activated IRE1 is the transcription factor HAC1 in yeast, or XBP1 in mammals; IRE1 cleaves an intron of a mRNA coding for HAC1/XBP1 to generate an activated HAC1/XBP1 transcription factor, which controls the up regulation of UPR-related genes. At least in mammals, IRE1 can also signal through additional intracellular pathways including JNK and NF-kappaB.
GO:0001657	ureteric bud development. The process whose specific outcome is the progression of the ureteric bud over time, from its formation to the mature structure.
GO:0045927	positive regulation of growth. activation of growth. stimulation of growth. up regulation of growth. up-regulation of growth. upregulation of growth. Any process that activates or increases the rate or extent of growth, the increase in size or mass of all or part of an organism.
GO:0043467	regulation of generation of precursor metabolites and energy. Any process that modulates the frequency, rate or extent of the chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the formation of precursor metabolites, substances from which energy is derived, and the processes involved in the liberation of energy from these substances.
GO:0046628	positive regulation of insulin receptor signaling pathway. activation of insulin receptor signaling pathway. positive regulation of insulin receptor signalling pathway. stimulation of insulin receptor signaling pathway. up regulation of insulin receptor signaling pathway. up-regulation of insulin receptor signaling pathway. upregulation of insulin receptor signaling pathway. Any process that increases the frequency, rate or extent of insulin receptor signaling.
GO:0038084	vascular endothelial growth factor signaling pathway. vascular endothelial growth factor signalling pathway. VEGF signaling. VEGF-activated signaling pathway. The series of molecular signals initiated by vascular endothelial growth factor (VEGF) binding its receptor on the surface of the target cell, and ending with the regulation of a downstream cellular process, e.g. transcription.
GO:1900076	regulation of cellular response to insulin stimulus. Any process that modulates the frequency, rate or extent of cellular response to insulin stimulus.
GO:0016540	protein autoprocessing. Processing which a protein carries out itself. This involves actions such as the autolytic removal of residues to generate the mature form of the protein.
GO:0006284	base-excision repair. BER. In base excision repair, an altered base is removed by a DNA glycosylase enzyme, followed by excision of the resulting sugar phosphate. The small gap left in the DNA helix is filled in by the sequential action of DNA polymerase and DNA ligase.
GO:0051223	regulation of protein transport. Any process that modulates the frequency, rate or extent of the directed movement of a protein into, out of or within a cell, or between cells, by means of some agent such as a transporter or pore.
GO:0031365	N-terminal protein amino acid modification. peptide or protein amino-terminal blocking. peptide/protein amino-terminal blocking. The alteration of the N-terminal amino acid residue in a protein.
GO:0032970	regulation of actin filament-based process. Any process that modulates the frequency, rate or extent of any cellular process that depends upon or alters the actin cytoskeleton.
GO:1903047	mitotic cell cycle process. A process that is part of the mitotic cell cycle.
GO:0030838	positive regulation of actin filament polymerization. activation of actin filament polymerization. positive regulation of actin polymerization. positive regulation of actin polymerization and/or depolymerization. stimulation of actin filament polymerization. up regulation of actin filament polymerization. up-regulation of actin filament polymerization. upregulation of actin filament polymerization. Any process that activates or increases the frequency, rate or extent of actin polymerization.
GO:0071371	cellular response to gonadotropin stimulus. cellular response to gonadotrophin stimulus. Any process that results in a change in state or activity of a cell (in terms of movement, secretion, enzyme production, gene expression, etc.) as a result of a gonadotropin stimulus.
GO:0009812	flavonoid metabolic process. flavonoid metabolism. The chemical reactions and pathways involving flavonoids, a group of water-soluble phenolic derivatives containing a flavan skeleton including flavones, flavonols and flavanoids, and anthocyanins.
GO:0032147	activation of protein kinase activity. protein kinase activation. Any process that initiates the activity of an inactive protein kinase.
GO:0090263	positive regulation of canonical Wnt signaling pathway. positive regulation of canonical Wnt receptor signaling pathway. positive regulation of canonical Wnt receptor signalling pathway. positive regulation of canonical Wnt-activated signaling pathway. positive regulation of catenin import into nucleus. positive regulation of catenin protein nuclear translocation. positive regulation of Wnt receptor signaling pathway through beta-catenin. Any process that increases the rate, frequency, or extent of the Wnt signaling pathway through beta-catenin, the series of molecular signals initiated by binding of a Wnt protein to a frizzled family receptor on the surface of the target cell, followed by propagation of the signal via beta-catenin, and ending with a change in transcription of target genes.
GO:0043368	positive T cell selection. positive T lymphocyte selection. positive T-cell selection. positive T-lymphocyte selection. The process of sparing immature T cells which react with self-MHC protein complexes with low affinity levels from apoptotic death.
GO:0010765	positive regulation of sodium ion transport. Any process that increases the frequency, rate or extent of the directed movement of sodium ions (Na+) into, out of or within a cell, or between cells, by means of some agent such as a transporter or pore.
GO:0016525	negative regulation of angiogenesis. down regulation of angiogenesis. down-regulation of angiogenesis. downregulation of angiogenesis. inhibition of angiogenesis. Any process that stops, prevents, or reduces the frequency, rate or extent of angiogenesis.
GO:0071705	nitrogen compound transport. The directed movement of nitrogen-containing compounds into, out of or within a cell, or between cells, by means of some agent such as a transporter or pore.
GO:0042733	embryonic digit morphogenesis. The process, occurring in the embryo, by which the anatomical structures of the digit are generated and organized. A digit is one of the terminal divisions of an appendage, such as a finger or toe.
GO:0035066	positive regulation of histone acetylation. activation of histone acetylation. stimulation of histone acetylation. up regulation of histone acetylation. up-regulation of histone acetylation. upregulation of histone acetylation. Any process that activates or increases the frequency, rate or extent of the addition of an acetyl group to a histone protein.
GO:0032365	intracellular lipid transport. The directed movement of lipids within cells.
GO:0043523	regulation of neuron apoptotic process. regulation of apoptosis of neuronal cells. regulation of apoptosis of neurons. regulation of neuron apoptosis. regulation of neuron programmed cell death. regulation of neuronal cell programmed cell death. regulation of programmed cell death of neuronal cells. regulation of programmed cell death, neurons. Any process that modulates the occurrence or rate of cell death by apoptotic process in neurons.
GO:0045597	positive regulation of cell differentiation. activation of cell differentiation. stimulation of cell differentiation. up regulation of cell differentiation. up-regulation of cell differentiation. upregulation of cell differentiation. Any process that activates or increases the frequency, rate or extent of cell differentiation.
GO:0043966	histone H3 acetylation. The modification of histone H3 by the addition of an acetyl group.
GO:0019228	neuronal action potential. generation of action potential. An action potential that occurs in a neuron.
GO:0045088	regulation of innate immune response. Any process that modulates the frequency, rate or extent of the innate immune response, the organism's first line of defense against infection.
GO:0007286	spermatid development. spermatid cell development. spermiogenesis. The process whose specific outcome is the progression of a spermatid over time, from its formation to the mature structure.
GO:0046474	glycerophospholipid biosynthetic process. glycerophospholipid anabolism. glycerophospholipid biosynthesis. glycerophospholipid formation. glycerophospholipid synthesis. phosphoglyceride biosynthesis. phosphoglyceride biosynthetic process. The chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the formation of glycerophospholipids, any derivative of glycerophosphate that contains at least one O-acyl, O-alkyl, or O-alkenyl group attached to the glycerol residue.
GO:0010959	regulation of metal ion transport. Any process that modulates the frequency, rate, or extent of metal ion transport. Metal ion transport is the directed movement of metal ions, any metal ion with an electric charge, into, out of or within a cell, or between cells, by means of some agent such as a transporter or pore.
GO:0030512	negative regulation of transforming growth factor beta receptor signaling pathway. down regulation of transforming growth factor beta receptor signaling pathway. down-regulation of transforming growth factor beta receptor signaling pathway. downregulation of transforming growth factor beta receptor signaling pathway. inhibition of transforming growth factor beta receptor signaling pathway. negative regulation of TGF-beta receptor signaling pathway. negative regulation of TGFbeta receptor signaling pathway. negative regulation of transforming growth factor beta receptor signalling pathway. Any process that stops, prevents, or reduces the frequency, rate or extent of any TGF-beta receptor signaling pathway.
GO:1903978	regulation of microglial cell activation. Any process that modulates the frequency, rate or extent of microglial cell activation.
GO:0042149	cellular response to glucose starvation. Any process that results in a change in state or activity of a cell (in terms of movement, secretion, enzyme production, gene expression, etc.) as a result of deprivation of glucose.
GO:0048008	platelet-derived growth factor receptor signaling pathway. PDGF receptor signaling pathway. PDGF receptor signalling pathway. PDGFR signaling pathway. The series of molecular signals initiated by a ligand binding to a platelet-derived growth factor receptor on the surface of a target cell, and ending with the regulation of a downstream cellular process, e.g. transcription.
GO:0051093	negative regulation of developmental process. down regulation of developmental process. down-regulation of developmental process. downregulation of developmental process. inhibition of developmental process. Any process that stops, prevents or reduces the rate or extent of development, the biological process whose specific outcome is the progression of an organism over time from an initial condition (e.g. a zygote, or a young adult) to a later condition (e.g. a multicellular animal or an aged adult).
GO:1903206	negative regulation of hydrogen peroxide-induced cell death. down regulation of cell death in response to H2O2. down regulation of cell death in response to hydrogen peroxide. down regulation of hydrogen peroxide-mediated cell death. down-regulation of cell death in response to H2O2. down-regulation of cell death in response to hydrogen peroxide. down-regulation of hydrogen peroxide-mediated cell death. downregulation of cell death in response to H2O2. downregulation of cell death in response to hydrogen peroxide. downregulation of hydrogen peroxide-mediated cell death. inhibition of cell death in response to H2O2. inhibition of cell death in response to hydrogen peroxide. inhibition of hydrogen peroxide-mediated cell death. negative regulation of cell death in response to H2O2. negative regulation of cell death in response to hydrogen peroxide. negative regulation of hydrogen peroxide-mediated cell death. protection against H2O2-induced cell death. protection against hydrogen peroxide-induced cell death. Any process that stops, prevents or reduces the frequency, rate or extent of hydrogen peroxide-induced cell death.
GO:0032496	response to lipopolysaccharide. response to endotoxin. response to LPS. Any process that results in a change in state or activity of an organism (in terms of movement, secretion, enzyme production, gene expression, etc.) as a result of a lipopolysaccharide stimulus; lipopolysaccharide is a major component of the cell wall of gram-negative bacteria.
GO:2001257	regulation of cation channel activity. regulation of cation diffusion facilitator activity. regulation of nonselective cation channel activity. Any process that modulates the frequency, rate or extent of cation channel activity.
GO:0097191	extrinsic apoptotic signaling pathway. death receptor-mediated apoptosis. extrinsic apoptosis. extrinsic apoptotic pathway. extrinsic apoptotic signaling pathway in presence of ligand. extrinsic apoptotic signalling pathway. The series of molecular signals in which a signal is conveyed from the cell surface to trigger the apoptotic death of a cell. The pathway starts with either a ligand binding to a cell surface receptor, or a ligand being withdrawn from a cell surface receptor (e.g. in the case of signaling by dependence receptors), and ends when the execution phase of apoptosis is triggered.
GO:0006355	regulation of DNA-templated transcription. regulation of cellular transcription, DNA-dependent. regulation of gene-specific transcription. regulation of transcription, DNA-dependent. regulation of transcription, DNA-templated. transcriptional control. Any process that modulates the frequency, rate or extent of cellular DNA-templated transcription.
GO:0040029	regulation of gene expression, epigenetic. A process that modulates the frequency, rate or extent of gene expression by remodelling of chromatin by either modifying the chromatin fiber, the nucleosomal histones, or the DNA. Once established, this regulation may be maintained over many cell divisions. It can also be heritable in the absence of the instigating signal.
GO:0010769	regulation of cell morphogenesis involved in differentiation. Any process that modulates the frequency, rate or extent of cell morphogenesis contributing to cell differentiation. Cell morphogenesis involved in differentiation is the change in form (cell shape and size) that occurs when relatively unspecialized cells acquire specialized structural and/or functional features that characterize the cells, tissues, or organs of the mature organism or some other relatively stable phase of the organism's life history.
GO:0008610	lipid biosynthetic process. lipid anabolism. lipid biosynthesis. lipid formation. lipid synthesis. lipogenesis. The chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the formation of lipids, compounds soluble in an organic solvent but not, or sparingly, in an aqueous solvent.
GO:0006835	dicarboxylic acid transport. sodium:dicarboxylate transport. The directed movement of dicarboxylic acids into, out of or within a cell, or between cells, by means of some agent such as a transporter or pore.
GO:0006801	superoxide metabolic process. oxygen free radical metabolic process. oxygen free radical metabolism. superoxide free radical metabolic process. superoxide free radical metabolism. superoxide metabolism. The chemical reactions and pathways involving superoxide, the superoxide anion O2- (superoxide free radical), or any compound containing this species.
GO:0050805	negative regulation of synaptic transmission. down regulation of synaptic transmission. down-regulation of synaptic transmission. downregulation of synaptic transmission. inhibition of synaptic transmission. Any process that stops, prevents, or reduces the frequency, rate or extent of synaptic transmission, the process of communication from a neuron to a target (neuron, muscle, or secretory cell) across a synapse.
GO:0010830	regulation of myotube differentiation. Any process that modulates the frequency, rate or extent of myotube differentiation. Myotube differentiation is the process in which a relatively unspecialized cell acquires specialized features of a myotube cell. Myotubes are multinucleated cells that are formed when proliferating myoblasts exit the cell cycle, differentiate and fuse.
GO:0006915	apoptotic process. activation of apoptosis. apoptosis. apoptosis activator activity. apoptosis signaling. apoptotic cell death. apoptotic program. apoptotic programmed cell death. caspase-dependent programmed cell death. cell suicide. cellular suicide. commitment to apoptosis. induction of apoptosis. induction of apoptosis by p53. programmed cell death by apoptosis. signaling (initiator) caspase activity. type I programmed cell death. A programmed cell death process which begins when a cell receives an internal (e.g. DNA damage) or external signal (e.g. an extracellular death ligand), and proceeds through a series of biochemical events (signaling pathway phase) which trigger an execution phase. The execution phase is the last step of an apoptotic process, and is typically characterized by rounding-up of the cell, retraction of pseudopodes, reduction of cellular volume (pyknosis), chromatin condensation, nuclear fragmentation (karyorrhexis), plasma membrane blebbing and fragmentation of the cell into apoptotic bodies. When the execution phase is completed, the cell has died.
GO:0001823	mesonephros development. Wolffian body development. The process whose specific outcome is the progression of the mesonephros over time, from its formation to the mature structure. In mammals, the mesonephros is the second of the three embryonic kidneys to be established and exists only transiently. In lower vertebrates such as fish and amphibia, the mesonephros will form the mature kidney.
GO:0014061	regulation of norepinephrine secretion. regulation of noradrenaline secretion. Any process that modulates the frequency, rate or extent of the regulated release of norepinephrine.
GO:0002040	sprouting angiogenesis. The extension of new blood vessels from existing vessels into avascular tissues, this process includes the specialization of endothelial cells into leading tip and stalk cells, proliferation and migration of the endothelial cells and cell adhesion resulting in angiogenic sprout fusion or lumen formation.
GO:0090398	cellular senescence. A cell aging process stimulated in response to cellular stress, whereby normal cells lose the ability to divide through irreversible cell cycle arrest.
GO:0016999	antibiotic metabolic process. antibiotic metabolism. The chemical reactions and pathways involving an antibiotic, a substance produced by or derived from certain fungi, bacteria, and other organisms, that can destroy or inhibit the growth of other microorganisms.
GO:1900087	positive regulation of G1/S transition of mitotic cell cycle. activation of G1/S transition of mitotic cell cycle. up regulation of G1/S transition of mitotic cell cycle. up-regulation of G1/S transition of mitotic cell cycle. upregulation of G1/S transition of mitotic cell cycle. Any signalling pathway that increases or activates a cell cycle cyclin-dependent protein kinase to modulate the switch from G1 phase to S phase of the mitotic cell cycle.
GO:0002690	positive regulation of leukocyte chemotaxis. activation of leukocyte chemotaxis. positive regulation of immune cell chemotaxis. positive regulation of leucocyte chemotaxis. stimulation of leukocyte chemotaxis. up regulation of leukocyte chemotaxis. up-regulation of leukocyte chemotaxis. upregulation of leukocyte chemotaxis. Any process that activates or increases the frequency, rate, or extent of leukocyte chemotaxis.
GO:0006919	activation of cysteine-type endopeptidase activity involved in apoptotic process. activation of caspase activity. activation of metacaspase activity. caspase activation. Any process that initiates the activity of the inactive enzyme cysteine-type endopeptidase in the context of an apoptotic process.
GO:0010288	response to lead ion. Any process that results in a change in state or activity of a cell or an organism (in terms of movement, secretion, enzyme production, gene expression, etc.) as a result of a lead ion stimulus.
GO:0080134	regulation of response to stress. Any process that modulates the frequency, rate or extent of a response to stress. Response to stress is a change in state or activity of a cell or an organism (in terms of movement, secretion, enzyme production, gene expression, etc.) as a result of a disturbance in organismal or cellular homeostasis, usually, but not necessarily, exogenous (e.g. temperature, humidity, ionizing radiation).
GO:0042755	eating behavior. eating behaviour. The specific behavior of an organism relating to the intake of food, any substance (usually solid) that can be metabolized by an organism to give energy and build tissue.
GO:1903829	positive regulation of protein localization. positive regulation of cellular protein localisation. positive regulation of cellular protein localization. up regulation of cellular protein localisation. up regulation of cellular protein localization. up-regulation of cellular protein localisation. up-regulation of cellular protein localization. upregulation of cellular protein localisation. upregulation of cellular protein localization. Any process that activates or increases the frequency, rate or extent of a protein localization.
GO:0009746	response to hexose. response to hexose stimulus. Any process that results in a change in state or activity of a cell or an organism (in terms of movement, secretion, enzyme production, gene expression, etc.) as a result of a hexose stimulus.
GO:0051260	protein homooligomerization. protein homooligomer assembly. protein homooligomer biosynthesis. protein homooligomer biosynthetic process. protein homooligomer formation. protein homooligomerization activity. The process of creating protein oligomers, compounds composed of a small number, usually between three and ten, of identical component monomers. Oligomers may be formed by the polymerization of a number of monomers or the depolymerization of a large protein polymer.
GO:0010762	regulation of fibroblast migration. regulation of fibroblast cell migration. Any process that modulates the rate, frequency or extent of fibroblast cell migration. Fibroblast cell migration is accomplished by extension and retraction of a pseudopodium.
GO:0001101	response to acid chemical. response to acid. response to acid anion. response to oxoanion. Any process that results in a change in state or activity of a cell or an organism (in terms of movement, secretion, enzyme production, gene expression, etc.) as a result of a stimulus by the chemical structure of the anion portion of a dissociated acid (rather than the acid acting as a proton donor). The acid chemical may be in gaseous, liquid or solid form.
GO:0045822	negative regulation of heart contraction. down regulation of heart contraction. down-regulation of heart contraction. downregulation of heart contraction. inhibition of heart contraction. negative regulation of cardiac contraction. Any process that stops, prevents, or reduces the frequency, rate or extent of heart contraction.
GO:0006886	intracellular protein transport. copper-induced intracellular protein transport. The directed movement of proteins in a cell, including the movement of proteins between specific compartments or structures within a cell, such as organelles of a eukaryotic cell.
GO:0046677	response to antibiotic. antibiotic susceptibility/resistance. Any process that results in a change in state or activity of a cell or an organism (in terms of movement, secretion, enzyme production, gene expression, etc.) as a result of an antibiotic stimulus. An antibiotic is a chemical substance produced by a microorganism which has the capacity to inhibit the growth of or to kill other microorganisms.
GO:0009057	macromolecule catabolic process. biopolymer catabolic process. macromolecule breakdown. macromolecule catabolism. macromolecule degradation. multicellular organismal macromolecule catabolic process. The chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the breakdown of a macromolecule, any molecule of high relative molecular mass, the structure of which essentially comprises the multiple repetition of units derived, actually or conceptually, from molecules of low relative molecular mass.
GO:0043277	apoptotic cell clearance. apoptotic cell removal. efferocytosis. programmed cell clearance. The recognition and removal of an apoptotic cell by a neighboring cell or by a phagocyte.
GO:0021587	cerebellum morphogenesis. The process in which the anatomical structure of the cerebellum is generated and organized. The cerebellum is the portion of the brain in the back of the head between the cerebrum and the pons. The cerebellum controls balance for walking and standing, modulates the force and range of movement and is involved in the learning of motor skills.
GO:0043303	mast cell degranulation. mast cell granule exocytosis. The regulated exocytosis of secretory granules containing preformed mediators such as histamine, serotonin, and neutral proteases by a mast cell.
GO:1905332	positive regulation of morphogenesis of an epithelium. activation of epithelium morphogenesis. activation of morphogenesis of an epithelium. positive regulation of epithelium morphogenesis. up regulation of epithelium morphogenesis. up regulation of morphogenesis of an epithelium. up-regulation of epithelium morphogenesis. up-regulation of morphogenesis of an epithelium. upregulation of epithelium morphogenesis. upregulation of morphogenesis of an epithelium. Any process that activates or increases the frequency, rate or extent of morphogenesis of an epithelium.
GO:0032757	positive regulation of interleukin-8 production. activation of interleukin-8 production. positive regulation of IL-8 production. positive regulation of interleukin-8 biosynthetic process. positive regulation of interleukin-8 secretion. stimulation of interleukin-8 production. up regulation of interleukin-8 production. up-regulation of interleukin-8 production. upregulation of interleukin-8 production. Any process that activates or increases the frequency, rate, or extent of interleukin-8 production.
GO:0043576	regulation of respiratory gaseous exchange. Any process that modulates the frequency, rate or extent of the process of gaseous exchange between an organism and its environment.
GO:0001525	angiogenesis. blood vessel formation from pre-existing blood vessels. Blood vessel formation when new vessels emerge from the proliferation of pre-existing blood vessels.
GO:0097061	dendritic spine organization. dendritic spine organisation. A process that is carried out at the cellular level which results in the assembly, arrangement of constituent parts, or disassembly of a dendritic spine. A dendritic spine is a specialized protrusion from a neuronal dendrite and is involved in synaptic transmission.
GO:0007422	peripheral nervous system development. The process whose specific outcome is the progression of the peripheral nervous system over time, from its formation to the mature structure. The peripheral nervous system is one of the two major divisions of the nervous system. Nerves in the PNS connect the central nervous system (CNS) with sensory organs, other organs, muscles, blood vessels and glands.
GO:0009063	cellular amino acid catabolic process. amino acid catabolic process. cellular amino acid breakdown. cellular amino acid catabolism. cellular amino acid degradation. The chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the breakdown of amino acids, organic acids containing one or more amino substituents.
GO:0007059	chromosome segregation. chromosome division. chromosome transmission. The process in which genetic material, in the form of chromosomes, is organized into specific structures and then physically separated and apportioned to two or more sets. In eukaryotes, chromosome segregation begins with the condensation of chromosomes, includes chromosome separation, and ends when chromosomes have completed movement to the spindle poles.
GO:0042573	retinoic acid metabolic process. retinoic acid metabolism. vitamin A1 acid metabolic process. vitamin A1 acid metabolism. The chemical reactions and pathways involving retinoic acid, one of the three components that makes up vitamin A.
GO:0033014	tetrapyrrole biosynthetic process. tetrapyrrole anabolism. tetrapyrrole biosynthesis. tetrapyrrole formation. tetrapyrrole synthesis. The chemical reactions and pathways leading to the formation of tetrapyrroles, natural pigments containing four pyrrole rings joined by one-carbon units linking position 2 of one pyrrole ring to position 5 of the next.
GO:0048634	regulation of muscle organ development. Any process that modulates the frequency, rate or extent of muscle development.
GO:0045669	positive regulation of osteoblast differentiation. activation of osteoblast differentiation. stimulation of osteoblast differentiation. up regulation of osteoblast differentiation. up-regulation of osteoblast differentiation. upregulation of osteoblast differentiation. Any process that activates or increases the frequency, rate or extent of osteoblast differentiation.
GO:0009914	hormone transport. The directed movement of hormones into, out of or within a cell, or between cells, by means of some agent such as a transporter or pore.
GO:0010638	positive regulation of organelle organization. positive regulation of organelle organisation. positive regulation of organelle organization and biogenesis. Any process that increases the frequency, rate or extent of a process involved in the formation, arrangement of constituent parts, or disassembly of an organelle.
GO:0018393	internal peptidyl-lysine acetylation. The addition of an acetyl group to a non-terminal lysine residue in a protein.
GO:0050777	negative regulation of immune response. down regulation of immune response. down-regulation of immune response. downregulation of immune response. inhibition of immune response. Any process that stops, prevents, or reduces the frequency, rate or extent of the immune response, the immunological reaction of an organism to an immunogenic stimulus.
GO:0043407	negative regulation of MAP kinase activity. down regulation of MAPK activity. down-regulation of MAPK activity. downregulation of MAPK activity. inhibition of MAPK activity. negative regulation of mitogen activated protein kinase activity. negative regulation of mitogen-activated protein kinase activity. Any process that stops, prevents, or reduces the frequency, rate or extent of MAP kinase activity.
GO:0007031	peroxisome organization. peroxisome organisation. peroxisome organization and biogenesis. peroxisome-assembly ATPase activity. A process that is carried out at the cellular level which results in the assembly, arrangement of constituent parts, or disassembly of a peroxisome. A peroxisome is a small, membrane-bounded organelle that uses dioxygen (O2) to oxidize organic molecules.
GO:0046395	carboxylic acid catabolic process. carboxylic acid breakdown. carboxylic acid catabolism. carboxylic acid degradation. The chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the breakdown of carboxylic acids, any organic acid containing one or more carboxyl (-COOH) groups.
GO:0000086	G2/M transition of mitotic cell cycle. mitotic G2/M transition. The mitotic cell cycle transition by which a cell in G2 commits to M phase. The process begins when the kinase activity of M cyclin/CDK complex reaches a threshold high enough for the cell cycle to proceed. This is accomplished by activating a positive feedback loop that results in the accumulation of unphosphorylated and active M cyclin/CDK complex.
GO:0045747	positive regulation of Notch signaling pathway. activation of Notch signaling pathway. positive regulation of N signaling pathway. positive regulation of N signalling pathway. positive regulation of Notch signalling pathway. stimulation of Notch signaling pathway. up regulation of Notch signaling pathway. up-regulation of Notch signaling pathway. upregulation of Notch signaling pathway. Any process that activates or increases the frequency, rate or extent of the Notch signaling pathway.
GO:0070647	protein modification by small protein conjugation or removal. A protein modification process in which one or more groups of a small protein, such as ubiquitin or a ubiquitin-like protein, are covalently attached to or removed from a target protein.
GO:0050866	negative regulation of cell activation. down regulation of cell activation. down-regulation of cell activation. downregulation of cell activation. inhibition of cell activation. Any process that stops, prevents, or reduces the frequency, rate or extent of cell activation.
GO:0098659	inorganic cation import across plasma membrane. inorganic cation import into cell. The directed movement of inorganic cations from outside of a cell, across the plasma membrane and into the cytosol.
GO:0001819	positive regulation of cytokine production. activation of cytokine production. positive regulation of cytokine biosynthetic process. positive regulation of cytokine secretion. stimulation of cytokine production. up regulation of cytokine production. up-regulation of cytokine production. upregulation of cytokine production. Any process that activates or increases the frequency, rate or extent of production of a cytokine.
GO:0031998	regulation of fatty acid beta-oxidation. Any process that modulates the frequency, rate or extent of fatty acid bbeta-oxidation.
GO:0032212	positive regulation of telomere maintenance via telomerase. activation of telomere maintenance via telomerase. stimulation of telomere maintenance via telomerase. up regulation of telomere maintenance via telomerase activity. up-regulation of telomere maintenance via telomerase activity. upregulation of telomere maintenance via telomerase activity. Any process that activates or increases the frequency, rate or extent of the addition of telomeric repeats by telomerase.
GO:0010837	regulation of keratinocyte proliferation. Any process that modulates the rate, frequency or extent of keratinocyte proliferation. Keratinocyte proliferation is the multiplication or reproduction of keratinocytes, resulting in the expansion of a cell population.
GO:0006873	cellular ion homeostasis. Any process involved in the maintenance of an internal steady state of ions at the level of a cell.
GO:0003008	system process. organ system process. A multicellular organismal process carried out by any of the organs or tissues in an organ system. An organ system is a regularly interacting or interdependent group of organs or tissues that work together to carry out a biological objective.
GO:1901889	negative regulation of cell junction assembly. down regulation of cell junction assembly. down-regulation of cell junction assembly. downregulation of cell junction assembly. inhibition of cell junction assembly. Any process that stops, prevents or reduces the frequency, rate or extent of cell junction assembly.
GO:0007155	cell adhesion. cell adhesion molecule activity. single organism cell adhesion. The attachment of a cell, either to another cell or to an underlying substrate such as the extracellular matrix, via cell adhesion molecules.
GO:0046394	carboxylic acid biosynthetic process. carboxylic acid anabolism. carboxylic acid biosynthesis. carboxylic acid formation. carboxylic acid synthesis. The chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the formation of carboxylic acids, any organic acid containing one or more carboxyl (-COOH) groups.
GO:0035023	regulation of Rho protein signal transduction. Any process that modulates the frequency, rate or extent of Rho protein signal transduction.
GO:0000083	regulation of transcription involved in G1/S transition of mitotic cell cycle. Any process that regulates transcription such that the target genes are involved in the transition between G1 and S phase of the mitotic cell cycle.
GO:0007167	enzyme-linked receptor protein signaling pathway. enzyme linked receptor protein signaling pathway. enzyme linked receptor protein signalling pathway. The series of molecular signals initiated by an extracellular ligand binding to a receptor on the surface of the target cell, where the receptor possesses catalytic activity or is closely associated with an enzyme such as a protein kinase, and ending with the regulation of a downstream cellular process, e.g. transcription.
GO:0014070	response to organic cyclic compound. response to organic cyclic substance. Any process that results in a change in state or activity of a cell or an organism (in terms of movement, secretion, enzyme production, gene expression, etc.) as a result of an organic cyclic compound stimulus.
GO:0006937	regulation of muscle contraction. Any process that modulates the frequency, rate or extent of muscle contraction.
GO:0034976	response to endoplasmic reticulum stress. cellular response to endoplasmic reticulum stress. ER stress response. response to ER stress. Any process that results in a change in state or activity of a cell (in terms of movement, secretion, enzyme production, gene expression, etc.) as a result of a stress acting at the endoplasmic reticulum. ER stress usually results from the accumulation of unfolded or misfolded proteins in the ER lumen.
GO:0046649	lymphocyte activation. A change in morphology and behavior of a lymphocyte resulting from exposure to a specific antigen, mitogen, cytokine, chemokine, cellular ligand, or soluble factor.
GO:0071824	protein-DNA complex subunit organization. DNA-protein complex subunit organization. protein-DNA complex subunit organisation. Any process in which macromolecules aggregate, disaggregate, or are modified, resulting in the formation, disassembly, or alteration of a protein-DNA complex.
GO:0098609	cell-cell adhesion. single organismal cell-cell adhesion. The attachment of one cell to another cell via adhesion molecules.
GO:0030101	natural killer cell activation. NK cell activation. The change in morphology and behavior of a natural killer cell in response to a cytokine, chemokine, cellular ligand, or soluble factor.
GO:0010976	positive regulation of neuron projection development. positive regulation of neurite biosynthesis. positive regulation of neurite development. positive regulation of neurite formation. positive regulation of neurite growth. Any process that increases the rate, frequency or extent of neuron projection development. Neuron projection development is the process whose specific outcome is the progression of a neuron projection over time, from its formation to the mature structure. A neuron projection is any process extending from a neural cell, such as axons or dendrites (collectively called neurites).
GO:0120036	plasma membrane bounded cell projection organization. A process that is carried out at the cellular level which results in the assembly, arrangement of constituent parts, or disassembly of a plasma membrane bounded prolongation or process extending from a cell, e.g. a cilium or axon.
GO:0043409	negative regulation of MAPK cascade. down regulation of MAPK cascade. down regulation of MAPKKK cascade. down-regulation of MAPK cascade. down-regulation of MAPKKK cascade. downregulation of MAPK cascade. downregulation of MAPKKK cascade. inhibition of MAPK cascade. inhibition of MAPKKK cascade. negative regulation of MAP kinase cascade. negative regulation of MAP kinase kinase kinase cascade. negative regulation of MAPKKK cascade. negative regulation of mitogen activated protein kinase cascade. negative regulation of mitogen activated protein kinase kinase kinase cascade. negative regulation of mitogen-activated protein kinase cascade. negative regulation of mitogen-activated protein kinase kinase kinase cascade. Any process that stops, prevents, or reduces the frequency, rate or extent of signal transduction mediated by the MAPKKK cascade.
GO:0022409	positive regulation of cell-cell adhesion. activation of cell-cell adhesion. stimulation of cell-cell adhesion. up regulation of cell-cell adhesion. up-regulation of cell-cell adhesion. upregulation of cell-cell adhesion. Any process that activates or increases the rate or extent of cell adhesion to another cell.
GO:0008038	neuron recognition. neuronal cell recognition. The process in which a neuronal cell in a multicellular organism interprets its surroundings.
GO:0042035	regulation of cytokine production. regulation of cytokine anabolism. regulation of cytokine biosynthesis. regulation of cytokine biosynthetic process. regulation of cytokine formation. regulation of cytokine secretion. regulation of cytokine synthesis. Any process that modulates the frequency, rate, or extent of production of a cytokine.
GO:0050869	negative regulation of B cell activation. down regulation of B cell activation. down-regulation of B cell activation. downregulation of B cell activation. inhibition of B cell activation. negative regulation of B lymphocyte activation. negative regulation of B-cell activation. negative regulation of B-lymphocyte activation. Any process that stops, prevents, or reduces the frequency, rate or extent of B cell activation.
GO:0007257	obsolete activation of JUN kinase activity. activation of SAPK activity. OBSOLETE. The initiation of the activity of the inactive enzyme JUN kinase (JNK).
GO:0034105	positive regulation of tissue remodeling. Any process that activates or increases the frequency, rate, or extent of tissue remodeling.
GO:0060429	epithelium development. The process whose specific outcome is the progression of an epithelium over time, from its formation to the mature structure. An epithelium is a tissue that covers the internal or external surfaces of an anatomical structure.
GO:0048562	embryonic organ morphogenesis. Morphogenesis, during the embryonic phase, of a tissue or tissues that work together to perform a specific function or functions. Morphogenesis is the process in which anatomical structures are generated and organized. Organs are commonly observed as visibly distinct structures, but may also exist as loosely associated clusters of cells that work together to perform a specific function or functions.
GO:0048754	branching morphogenesis of an epithelial tube. tubulogenesis. The process in which the anatomical structures of branches in an epithelial tube are generated and organized. A tube is a long hollow cylinder.
GO:0036003	positive regulation of transcription from RNA polymerase II promoter in response to stress. Any process that increases the frequency, rate or extent of transcription from an RNA polymerase II promoter as a result of a stimulus indicating the organism is under stress. The stress is usually, but not necessarily, exogenous (e.g. temperature, humidity, ionizing radiation).
GO:0051276	chromosome organization. chromosome organisation. chromosome organization and biogenesis. DNA condensation. DNA packaging. maintenance of genome integrity. nuclear genome maintenance. A process that is carried out at the cellular level that results in the assembly, arrangement of constituent parts, or disassembly of chromosomes, structures composed of a very long molecule of DNA and associated proteins that carries hereditary information. This term covers covalent modifications at the molecular level as well as spatial relationships among the major components of a chromosome.
GO:0043010	camera-type eye development. The process whose specific outcome is the progression of the camera-type eye over time, from its formation to the mature structure. The camera-type eye is an organ of sight that receives light through an aperture and focuses it through a lens, projecting it on a photoreceptor field.
GO:0042098	T cell proliferation. T lymphocyte proliferation. T-cell proliferation. T-lymphocyte proliferation. The expansion of a T cell population by cell division. Follows T cell activation.
GO:0043627	response to estrogen. response to estrogen stimulus. response to oestrogen stimulus. Any process that results in a change in state or activity of a cell or an organism (in terms of movement, secretion, enzyme production, gene expression, etc.) as a result of stimulus by an estrogen, C18 steroid hormones that can stimulate the development of female sexual characteristics.
GO:0022604	regulation of cell morphogenesis. negative regulation of cell shape and cell size. positive regulation of cell shape and cell size. regulation of cell shape and cell size. Any process that modulates the frequency, rate or extent of cell morphogenesis. Cell morphogenesis is the developmental process in which the shape of a cell is generated and organized.
GO:0070266	necroptotic process. activation of necroptosis. activation of necroptosis by extracellular signals. activation of necroptosis in response to extracellular signals. activation of necroptosis of activated-T cells. establishment of necroptosis. establishment of necroptosis of activated-T cells. extracellular signal-induced necroptosis. induction of necroptosis. induction of necroptosis by extracellular signals. induction of necroptosis of activated-T cells. necroptosis. PARP-dependent cell death. parthanatos. programmed necrosis. programmed necrotic cell death. RIPK1-mediated regulated necrosis. TNF-induced necroptosis. A programmed necrotic cell death process which begins when a cell receives a signal (e.g. a ligand binding to a death receptor or to a Toll-like receptor), and proceeds through a series of biochemical events (signaling pathways), characterized by activation of receptor-interacting serine/threonine-protein kinase 1 and/or 3 (RIPK1/3, also called RIP1/3) and by critical dependence on mixed lineage kinase domain-like (MLKL), and which typically lead to common morphological features of necrotic cell death. The process ends when the cell has died. The process is divided into a signaling phase, and an execution phase, which is triggered by the former.
GO:0043457	regulation of cellular respiration. Any process that modulates the frequency, rate or extent of cellular respiration, the enzymatic release of energy from organic compounds.
GO:0002504	antigen processing and presentation of peptide or polysaccharide antigen via MHC class II. peptide or polysaccharide antigen processing and presentation of via MHC class II. The process in which an antigen-presenting cell expresses antigen (peptide or polysaccharide) on its cell surface in association with an MHC class II protein complex.
GO:0008210	estrogen metabolic process. estrogen metabolism. oestrogen metabolic process. oestrogen metabolism. The chemical reactions and pathways involving estrogens, C18 steroid hormones that can stimulate the development of female sexual characteristics. Also found in plants.
GO:0031146	SCF-dependent proteasomal ubiquitin-dependent protein catabolic process. SCF-dependent proteasomal ubiquitin-dependent protein breakdown. SCF-dependent proteasomal ubiquitin-dependent protein catabolism. SCF-dependent proteasomal ubiquitin-dependent protein degradation. The chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the breakdown of a protein or peptide by hydrolysis of its peptide bonds, initiated by the covalent attachment of ubiquitin, with ubiquitin-protein ligation catalyzed by an SCF (Skp1/Cul1/F-box protein) complex, and mediated by the proteasome.
GO:0090559	regulation of membrane permeability. Any process that modulates the frequency, rate or extent of the passage or uptake of molecules by a membrane.
GO:0035666	TRIF-dependent toll-like receptor signaling pathway. Toll/IL-1 receptor (TIR) domain-containing adaptor-dependent TLR signaling pathway. TRIF-dependent TLR signaling pathway. TRIF-dependent toll-like receptor signalling pathway. The series of molecular signals initiated by a ligand binding to a toll-like receptor where the TRIF adaptor mediates transduction of the signal. Toll-like receptors directly bind pattern motifs from a variety of microbial sources to initiate an innate immune response.
GO:0006497	protein lipidation. lipid:protein modification. protein amino acid lipidation. The covalent attachment of lipid groups to an amino acid in a protein.
GO:0071377	cellular response to glucagon stimulus. Any process that results in a change in state or activity of a cell (in terms of movement, secretion, enzyme production, gene expression, etc.) as a result of a glucagon stimulus.
GO:0006998	nuclear envelope organization. nuclear envelope organisation. nuclear envelope organization and biogenesis. A process that is carried out at the cellular level which results in the assembly, arrangement of constituent parts, or disassembly of the nuclear envelope.
GO:0051236	establishment of RNA localization. establishment of RNA localisation. RNA positioning. RNA recruitment. The directed movement of RNA to a specific location.
GO:0007266	Rho protein signal transduction. Rho mediated signal transduction. The series of molecular signals within the cell that are mediated by a member of the Rho family of proteins switching to a GTP-bound active state.
GO:2000027	regulation of animal organ morphogenesis. regulation of histogenesis and organogenesis. Any process that modulates the frequency, rate or extent of animal organ morphogenesis.
GO:0008284	positive regulation of cell population proliferation. activation of cell proliferation. positive regulation of cell proliferation. stimulation of cell proliferation. up regulation of cell proliferation. up-regulation of cell proliferation. upregulation of cell proliferation. Any process that activates or increases the rate or extent of cell proliferation.
GO:0030534	adult behavior. adult behavioral response to stimulus. adult behaviour. adult behavioural response to stimulus. Behavior in a fully developed and mature organism.
GO:0045665	negative regulation of neuron differentiation. down regulation of neuron differentiation. down-regulation of neuron differentiation. downregulation of neuron differentiation. inhibition of neuron differentiation. Any process that stops, prevents, or reduces the frequency, rate or extent of neuron differentiation.
GO:0009790	embryo development. embryogenesis. embryogenesis and morphogenesis. embryonal development. The process whose specific outcome is the progression of an embryo from its formation until the end of its embryonic life stage. The end of the embryonic stage is organism-specific. For example, for mammals, the process would begin with zygote formation and end with birth. For insects, the process would begin at zygote formation and end with larval hatching. For plant zygotic embryos, this would be from zygote formation to the end of seed dormancy. For plant vegetative embryos, this would be from the initial determination of the cell or group of cells to form an embryo until the point when the embryo becomes independent of the parent plant.
GO:0009185	ribonucleoside diphosphate metabolic process. ribonucleoside diphosphate metabolism. The chemical reactions and pathways involving a ribonucleoside diphosphate, a compound consisting of a nucleobase linked to a ribose sugar esterified with diphosphate on the sugar.
GO:0009653	anatomical structure morphogenesis. anatomical structure organization. embryogenesis and morphogenesis. morphogenesis. The process in which anatomical structures are generated and organized. Morphogenesis pertains to the creation of form.
GO:0002244	hematopoietic progenitor cell differentiation. haematopoietic progenitor cell differentiation. haemopoietic progenitor cell differentiation. hemopoietic progenitor cell differentiation. The process in which precursor cell type acquires the specialized features of a hematopoietic progenitor cell, a class of cell types including myeloid progenitor cells and lymphoid progenitor cells.
GO:0033627	cell adhesion mediated by integrin. cell adhesion mediated by integrin complex. The attachment of a cell, either to another cell or to an underlying substrate such as the extracellular matrix, via an integrin, a heterodimeric adhesion receptor formed by the non-covalent association of particular alpha and beta subunits.
GO:0002825	regulation of T-helper 1 type immune response. Any process that modulates the frequency, rate, or extent of a T-helper 1 type immune response.
GO:0021545	cranial nerve development. The process whose specific outcome is the progression of the cranial nerves over time, from its formation to the mature structure. The cranial nerves are composed of twelve pairs of nerves that emanate from the nervous tissue of the hindbrain. These nerves are sensory, motor, or mixed in nature, and provide the motor and general sensory innervation of the head, neck and viscera. They mediate vision, hearing, olfaction and taste and carry the parasympathetic innervation of the autonomic ganglia that control visceral functions.
GO:0035970	peptidyl-threonine dephosphorylation. The removal of phosphoric residues from peptidyl-O-phospho-L-threonine to form peptidyl-threonine.
GO:0007190	activation of adenylate cyclase activity. adenylate cyclase activation. adenylate cyclase activator. adenylyl cyclase activation. Any process that initiates the activity of the inactive enzyme adenylate cyclase.
GO:0032924	activin receptor signaling pathway. activin receptor signalling pathway. The series of molecular signals initiated by an extracellular ligand binding to an activin receptor on the surface of a target cell, and ending with the regulation of a downstream cellular process, e.g. transcription.
GO:0045686	negative regulation of glial cell differentiation. down regulation of glial cell differentiation. down-regulation of glial cell differentiation. downregulation of glial cell differentiation. inhibition of glial cell differentiation. negative regulation of glia cell differentiation. negative regulation of neuroglia differentiation. Any process that stops, prevents, or reduces the frequency, rate or extent of glia cell differentiation.
GO:0060079	excitatory postsynaptic potential. regulation of EPSP. regulation of excitatory post-synaptic membrane potential. A process that leads to a temporary increase in postsynaptic potential due to the flow of positively charged ions into the postsynaptic cell. The flow of ions that causes an EPSP is an excitatory postsynaptic current (EPSC) and makes it easier for the neuron to fire an action potential.
GO:0043174	nucleoside salvage. Any process which produces a nucleotide, a nucleobase linked to either beta-D-ribofuranose (ribonucleoside) or 2-deoxy-beta-D-ribofuranose (a deoxyribonucleotide), from derivatives of it without de novo synthesis.
GO:0051674	localization of cell. cell localization. establishment and maintenance of cell localization. establishment and maintenance of localization of cell. localisation of cell. Any process in which a cell is transported to, and/or maintained in, a specific location.
GO:0050855	regulation of B cell receptor signaling pathway. regulation of B cell receptor signalling pathway. regulation of B lymphocyte receptor signaling pathway. regulation of B lymphocyte receptor signalling pathway. regulation of B-cell receptor signaling pathway. regulation of B-cell receptor signalling pathway. regulation of B-lymphocyte receptor signaling pathway. regulation of B-lymphocyte receptor signalling pathway. Any process that modulates the frequency, rate or extent of signaling pathways initiated by the cross-linking of an antigen receptor on a B cell.
GO:0030513	positive regulation of BMP signaling pathway. activation of BMP signaling pathway. positive regulation of BMP receptor signaling pathway. positive regulation of BMP signalling pathway. positive regulation of bone morphogenetic protein signaling pathway. positive regulation of bone morphogenetic protein signalling pathway. positive regulation of decapentaplegic receptor signaling pathway. positive regulation of decapentaplegic receptor signalling pathway. positive regulation of decapentaplegic signaling pathway. stimulation of BMP signaling pathway. up regulation of BMP signaling pathway. up-regulation of BMP signaling pathway. upregulation of BMP signaling pathway. Any process that activates or increases the frequency, rate or extent of BMP signaling pathway activity.
GO:0030194	positive regulation of blood coagulation. activation of blood coagulation. stimulation of blood coagulation. up regulation of blood coagulation. up-regulation of blood coagulation. upregulation of blood coagulation. Any process that activates or increases the frequency, rate or extent of blood coagulation.
GO:0006935	chemotaxis. taxis in response to chemical stimulus. The directed movement of a motile cell or organism, or the directed growth of a cell guided by a specific chemical concentration gradient. Movement may be towards a higher concentration (positive chemotaxis) or towards a lower concentration (negative chemotaxis).
GO:0010712	regulation of collagen metabolic process. regulation of collagen metabolism. Any process that modulates the frequency, rate or extent of the chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the metabolism of collagen, any of a group of fibrous proteins of very high tensile strength that form the main component of connective tissue in animals.
GO:0042100	B cell proliferation. B lymphocyte proliferation. B-cell proliferation. B-lymphocyte proliferation. The expansion of a B cell population by cell division. Follows B cell activation.
GO:0018107	peptidyl-threonine phosphorylation. The phosphorylation of peptidyl-threonine to form peptidyl-O-phospho-L-threonine.
GO:2001028	positive regulation of endothelial cell chemotaxis. Any process that activates or increases the frequency, rate or extent of endothelial cell chemotaxis.
GO:0032753	positive regulation of interleukin-4 production. activation of interleukin-4 production. positive regulation of IL-4 production. positive regulation of interleukin-4 biosynthetic process. positive regulation of interleukin-4 secretion. stimulation of interleukin-4 production. up regulation of interleukin-4 production. up-regulation of interleukin-4 production. upregulation of interleukin-4 production. Any process that activates or increases the frequency, rate, or extent of interleukin-4 production.
GO:1901661	quinone metabolic process. quinone cofactor metabolic process. quinone cofactor metabolism. quinone metabolism. The chemical reactions and pathways involving quinone.
GO:0019637	organophosphate metabolic process. organophosphate metabolism. The chemical reactions and pathways involving organophosphates, any phosphate-containing organic compound.
GO:0044271	cellular nitrogen compound biosynthetic process. nitrogen compound anabolism. nitrogen compound biosynthesis. nitrogen compound formation. nitrogen compound synthesis. The chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the formation of organic and inorganic nitrogenous compounds.
GO:0006487	protein N-linked glycosylation. N-glycan biosynthesis. N-glycan metabolism. protein amino acid N-linked glycosylation. A protein glycosylation process in which a carbohydrate or carbohydrate derivative unit is added to a protein via the N4 atom of peptidyl-asparagine, the omega-N of arginine, or the N1' atom peptidyl-tryptophan.
GO:0050918	positive chemotaxis. chemoattraction. The directed movement of a motile cell or organism towards a higher concentration of a chemical.
GO:0034033	purine nucleoside bisphosphate biosynthetic process. purine nucleoside bisphosphate anabolism. purine nucleoside bisphosphate biosynthesis. purine nucleoside bisphosphate formation. purine nucleoside bisphosphate synthesis. The chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the formation of a purine nucleoside bisphosphate, a compound consisting of a purine base linked to a deoxyribose or ribose sugar esterified with one phosphate group attached to each of two different hydroxyl groups on the sugar.
GO:0007417	central nervous system development. CNS development. The process whose specific outcome is the progression of the central nervous system over time, from its formation to the mature structure. The central nervous system is the core nervous system that serves an integrating and coordinating function. In vertebrates it consists of the brain and spinal cord. In those invertebrates with a central nervous system it typically consists of a brain, cerebral ganglia and a nerve cord.
GO:0033033	negative regulation of myeloid cell apoptotic process. down regulation of myeloid cell apoptosis. down-regulation of myeloid cell apoptosis. downregulation of myeloid cell apoptosis. inhibition of myeloid cell apoptosis. negative regulation of myeloid cell apoptosis. Any process that stops, prevents, or reduces the frequency, rate, or extent of a myeloid cell apoptotic process.
GO:0010001	glial cell differentiation. glia cell differentiation. neuroglia differentiation. The process in which a relatively unspecialized cell acquires the specialized features of a glial cell.
GO:0090130	tissue migration. The process in which the population of cells that make up a tissue undergo directed movement.
GO:0000956	nuclear-transcribed mRNA catabolic process. nuclear mRNA breakdown. nuclear mRNA catabolism. nuclear mRNA degradation. The chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the breakdown of nuclear-transcribed mRNAs in eukaryotic cells.
GO:0006874	cellular calcium ion homeostasis. regulation of calcium ion concentration. Any process involved in the maintenance of an internal steady state of calcium ions at the level of a cell.
GO:0035235	ionotropic glutamate receptor signaling pathway. ionotropic glutamate receptor signalling pathway. The series of molecular signals initiated by glutamate binding to a glutamate receptor on the surface of the target cell, followed by the movement of ions through a channel in the receptor complex, and ending with the regulation of a downstream cellular process, e.g. transcription.
GO:0098900	regulation of action potential. Any process that modulates the frequency, rate or extent of action potential creation, propagation or termination. This typically occurs via modulation of the activity or expression of voltage-gated ion channels.
GO:0051924	regulation of calcium ion transport. regulation of calcium transport. Any process that modulates the frequency, rate or extent of the directed movement of calcium ions into, out of or within a cell, or between cells, by means of some agent such as a transporter or pore.
GO:0016050	vesicle organization. vesicle organisation. vesicle organization and biogenesis. A process that is carried out at the cellular level which results in the assembly, arrangement of constituent parts, or disassembly of a vesicle.
GO:0030071	regulation of mitotic metaphase/anaphase transition. Any process that modulates the frequency, rate or extent of the cell cycle process in which a cell progresses from metaphase to anaphase during mitosis, triggered by the activation of the anaphase promoting complex by Cdc20/Sleepy homolog which results in the degradation of Securin.
GO:0044068	modulation by symbiont of host cellular process. modulation of host cellular process by symbiont. regulation by symbiont of host cellular process. regulation of host cellular process by symbiont. Any process in which a symbiont organism modulates the frequency, rate or extent of a cellular process, any process that is carried out at the cellular level, but not necessarily restricted to a single cell, in its host organism.
GO:0051770	positive regulation of nitric-oxide synthase biosynthetic process. activation of nitric-oxide synthase 2 biosynthetic process. activation of nitric-oxide synthase biosynthetic process. positive regulation of nitric-oxide synthase (type 2) biosynthesis. positive regulation of nitric-oxide synthase (type 2) biosynthetic process. positive regulation of nitric-oxide synthase (type II) biosynthesis. positive regulation of nitric-oxide synthase (type II) biosynthetic process. positive regulation of nitric-oxide synthase 2 biosynthetic process. positive regulation of NO synthase biosynthesis. positive regulation of NO synthase biosynthetic process. positive regulation of NOS biosynthesis. positive regulation of NOS biosynthetic process. positive regulation of NOS2 synthase biosynthesis. positive regulation of NOS2 synthase biosynthetic process. stimulation of nitric-oxide synthase 2 biosynthetic process. stimulation of nitric-oxide synthase biosynthetic process. up regulation of nitric-oxide synthase 2 biosynthetic process. up regulation of nitric-oxide synthase biosynthetic process. up-regulation of nitric-oxide synthase 2 biosynthetic process. up-regulation of nitric-oxide synthase biosynthetic process. upregulation of nitric-oxide synthase 2 biosynthetic process. upregulation of nitric-oxide synthase biosynthetic process. Any process that activates or increases the frequency, rate or extent of the chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the formation of a nitric oxide synthase enzyme.
GO:0045892	negative regulation of DNA-templated transcription. down regulation of gene-specific transcription. down regulation of transcription, DNA-dependent. down-regulation of gene-specific transcription. down-regulation of transcription, DNA-dependent. downregulation of gene-specific transcription. downregulation of transcription, DNA-dependent. inhibition of gene-specific transcription. inhibition of transcription, DNA-dependent. negative regulation of cellular transcription, DNA-dependent. negative regulation of gene-specific transcription. negative regulation of transcription, DNA-dependent. negative regulation of transcription, DNA-templated. transcription repressor activity. Any process that stops, prevents, or reduces the frequency, rate or extent of cellular DNA-templated transcription.
GO:0022603	regulation of anatomical structure morphogenesis. regulation of morphogenesis. Any process that modulates the frequency, rate or extent of anatomical structure morphogenesis.
GO:0002474	antigen processing and presentation of peptide antigen via MHC class I. peptide antigen processing and presentation via MHC class I. The process in which an antigen-presenting cell expresses a peptide antigen on its cell surface in association with an MHC class I protein complex. Class I here refers to classical class I molecules.
GO:0031667	response to nutrient levels. Any process that results in a change in state or activity of a cell or an organism (in terms of movement, secretion, enzyme production, gene expression, etc.) as a result of a stimulus reflecting the presence, absence, or concentration of nutrients.
GO:0030010	establishment of cell polarity. bud site selection/establishment of cell polarity. cell polarization. The specification and formation of anisotropic intracellular organization or cell growth patterns.
GO:0015701	bicarbonate transport. The directed movement of bicarbonate into, out of or within a cell, or between cells, by means of some agent such as a transporter or pore.
GO:0070498	interleukin-1-mediated signaling pathway. IL-1 alpha-mediated signaling pathway. IL-1 beta-mediated signaling pathway. IL-1-mediated signaling pathway. interleukin-1 alpha-mediated signaling pathway. interleukin-1 beta-mediated signaling pathway. interleukin-1-mediated signalling pathway. The series of molecular signals initiated by interleukin-1 binding to its receptor on the surface of a target cell, and ending with the regulation of a downstream cellular process, e.g. transcription.
GO:0032729	positive regulation of interferon-gamma production. activation of interferon-gamma production. positive regulation of interferon-gamma biosynthetic process. positive regulation of interferon-gamma secretion. positive regulation of type II interferon production. stimulation of interferon-gamma production. up regulation of interferon-gamma production. up-regulation of interferon-gamma production. upregulation of interferon-gamma production. Any process that activates or increases the frequency, rate, or extent of interferon-gamma production. Interferon-gamma is also known as type II interferon.
GO:0008283	cell population proliferation. cell proliferation. The multiplication or reproduction of cells, resulting in the expansion of a cell population.
GO:0002366	leukocyte activation involved in immune response. immune cell activation during immune response. leucocyte activation during immune response. leukocyte activation during immune response. A change in morphology and behavior of a leukocyte resulting from exposure to a specific antigen, mitogen, cytokine, cellular ligand, or soluble factor, leading to the initiation or perpetuation of an immune response.
GO:0015850	organic hydroxy compound transport. organic alcohol transport. The directed movement of an organic hydroxy compound (organic alcohol) into, out of or within a cell, or between cells, by means of some agent such as a transporter or pore. An organic hydroxy compound is an organic compound having at least one hydroxy group attached to a carbon atom.
GO:0030324	lung development. The process whose specific outcome is the progression of the lung over time, from its formation to the mature structure. In all air-breathing vertebrates the lungs are developed from the ventral wall of the oesophagus as a pouch which divides into two sacs. In amphibians and many reptiles the lungs retain very nearly this primitive sac-like character, but in the higher forms the connection with the esophagus becomes elongated into the windpipe and the inner walls of the sacs become more and more divided, until, in the mammals, the air spaces become minutely divided into tubes ending in small air cells, in the walls of which the blood circulates in a fine network of capillaries. In mammals the lungs are more or less divided into lobes, and each lung occupies a separate cavity in the thorax.
GO:1904062	regulation of cation transmembrane transport. Any process that modulates the frequency, rate or extent of cation transmembrane transport.
GO:0060135	maternal process involved in female pregnancy. A reproductive process occurring in the mother that allows an embryo or fetus to develop within it.
GO:0008203	cholesterol metabolic process. cholesterol metabolism. The chemical reactions and pathways involving cholesterol, cholest-5-en-3 beta-ol, the principal sterol of vertebrates and the precursor of many steroids, including bile acids and steroid hormones. It is a component of the plasma membrane lipid bilayer and of plasma lipoproteins and can be found in all animal tissues.
GO:0001942	hair follicle development. The process whose specific outcome is the progression of the hair follicle over time, from its formation to the mature structure. A hair follicle is a tube-like opening in the epidermis where the hair shaft develops and into which the sebaceous glands open.
GO:0050435	amyloid-beta metabolic process. amyloid-beta metabolism. beta-amyloid metabolic process. beta-amyloid metabolism. The chemical reactions and pathways involving amyloid-beta, a glycoprotein associated with Alzheimer's disease, and its precursor, amyloid precursor protein (APP).
GO:1905330	regulation of morphogenesis of an epithelium. regulation of epithelium morphogenesis. Any process that modulates the frequency, rate or extent of morphogenesis of an epithelium.
GO:0051937	catecholamine transport. The directed movement of catecholamines, a group of physiologically important biogenic amines that possess a catechol (3,4-dihydroxyphenyl) nucleus and are derivatives of 3,4-dihydroxyphenylethylamine.
GO:0050714	positive regulation of protein secretion. activation of protein secretion. stimulation of protein secretion. up regulation of protein secretion. up-regulation of protein secretion. upregulation of protein secretion. Any process that activates or increases the frequency, rate or extent of the controlled release of a protein from a cell.
GO:0090102	cochlea development. The progression of the cochlea over time from its formation to the mature structure. The cochlea is the snail-shaped portion of the inner ear that is responsible for the detection of sound.
GO:0045599	negative regulation of fat cell differentiation. down regulation of fat cell differentiation. down-regulation of fat cell differentiation. downregulation of fat cell differentiation. inhibition of fat cell differentiation. negative regulation of adipocyte cell differentiation. negative regulation of adipocyte differentiation. Any process that stops, prevents, or reduces the frequency, rate or extent of adipocyte differentiation.
GO:0032094	response to food. Any process that results in a change in state or activity of a cell or an organism (in terms of movement, secretion, enzyme production, gene expression, etc.) as a result of a food stimulus; food is anything which, when taken into the body, serves to nourish or build up the tissues or to supply body heat.
GO:0044092	negative regulation of molecular function. Any process that stops or reduces the rate or extent of a molecular function, an elemental biological activity occurring at the molecular level, such as catalysis or binding.
GO:0048701	embryonic cranial skeleton morphogenesis. embryonic cranium morphogenesis. The process in which the anatomical structures of the cranial skeleton are generated and organized during the embryonic phase.
GO:1900409	positive regulation of cellular response to oxidative stress. activation of adaptive response to oxidative stress. activation of cellular response to oxidative stress. positive regulation of adaptive response to oxidative stress. up regulation of adaptive response to oxidative stress. up regulation of cellular response to oxidative stress. up-regulation of adaptive response to oxidative stress. up-regulation of cellular response to oxidative stress. upregulation of adaptive response to oxidative stress. upregulation of cellular response to oxidative stress. Any process that activates or increases the frequency, rate or extent of cellular response to oxidative stress.
GO:1903169	regulation of calcium ion transmembrane transport. regulation of calcium ion membrane transport. regulation of transmembrane calcium transport. Any process that modulates the frequency, rate or extent of calcium ion transmembrane transport.
GO:0043370	regulation of CD4-positive, alpha-beta T cell differentiation. regulation of CD4-positive T lymphocyte differentiation. regulation of CD4-positive T-cell differentiation. regulation of CD4-positive T-lymphocyte differentiation. regulation of CD4-positive, alpha beta T cell development. regulation of CD4-positive, alpha beta T cell differentiation. regulation of CD4-positive, alpha beta T lymphocyte differentiation. regulation of CD4-positive, alpha beta T-cell differentiation. regulation of CD4-positive, alpha beta T-lymphocyte differentiation. Any process that modulates the frequency, rate, or extent of CD4-positive, alpha-beta T cell differentiation.
GO:0071634	regulation of transforming growth factor beta production. regulation of TGF-B production. regulation of TGF-beta production. regulation of TGFB production. regulation of TGFbeta production. regulation of transforming growth factor-beta production. regulation of transforming growth factor-beta secretion. Any process that modulates the frequency, rate, or extent of production of transforming growth factor-beta.
GO:0006303	double-strand break repair via nonhomologous end joining. NHEJ. The repair of a double-strand break in DNA in which the two broken ends are rejoined with little or no sequence complementarity. Information at the DNA ends may be lost due to the modification of broken DNA ends. This term covers instances of separate pathways, called classical (or canonical) and alternative nonhomologous end joining (C-NHEJ and A-NHEJ). These in turn may further branch into sub-pathways, but evidence is still unclear.
GO:0035864	response to potassium ion. response to K+ ion. response to potassium. Any process that results in a change in state or activity of a cell or an organism (in terms of movement, secretion, enzyme production, gene expression, etc.) as a result of a potassium ion stimulus.
GO:0031032	actomyosin structure organization. actomyosin organization. actomyosin structure organisation. actomyosin structure organization and biogenesis. A process that is carried out at the cellular level which results in the assembly, arrangement of constituent parts, or disassembly of cytoskeletal structures containing both actin and myosin or paramyosin. The myosin may be organized into filaments.
GO:0060259	regulation of feeding behavior. regulation of feeding behaviour. Any process that modulates the rate, frequency or extent of the behavior associated with the intake of food.
GO:0034097	response to cytokine. response to cytokine stimulus. Any process that results in a change in state or activity of a cell or an organism (in terms of movement, secretion, enzyme production, gene expression, etc.) as a result of a cytokine stimulus.
GO:0001570	vasculogenesis. vascular morphogenesis. The differentiation of endothelial cells from progenitor cells during blood vessel development, and the de novo formation of blood vessels and tubes.
GO:0034655	nucleobase-containing compound catabolic process. nucleobase, nucleoside, nucleotide and nucleic acid breakdown. nucleobase, nucleoside, nucleotide and nucleic acid catabolic process. nucleobase, nucleoside, nucleotide and nucleic acid catabolism. nucleobase, nucleoside, nucleotide and nucleic acid degradation. The chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the breakdown of nucleobases, nucleosides, nucleotides and nucleic acids.
GO:0043462	regulation of ATP-dependent activity. regulation of adenosinetriphosphatase activity. regulation of ATPase activity. Any process that modulates the rate of an ATP-dependent activity.
GO:0051043	regulation of membrane protein ectodomain proteolysis. Any process that modulates the frequency, rate or extent of the proteolytic cleavage of transmembrane proteins and release of their ectodomain (extracellular domain).
GO:0017085	response to insecticide. insecticide resistance. insecticide susceptibility/resistance. Any process that results in a change in state or activity of a cell or an organism (in terms of movement, secretion, enzyme production, gene expression, etc.) as a result of an insecticide stimulus. Insecticides are chemicals used to kill insects.
GO:0042445	hormone metabolic process. hormone metabolism. The chemical reactions and pathways involving any hormone, naturally occurring substances secreted by specialized cells that affects the metabolism or behavior of other cells possessing functional receptors for the hormone.
GO:0071542	dopaminergic neuron differentiation. The process in which a neuroblast acquires the specialized structural and functional features of a dopaminergic neuron, a neuron that secretes dopamine.
GO:0042059	negative regulation of epidermal growth factor receptor signaling pathway. down regulation of epidermal growth factor receptor signaling pathway. down-regulation of epidermal growth factor receptor signaling pathway. downregulation of epidermal growth factor receptor signaling pathway. inhibition of epidermal growth factor receptor signaling pathway. negative regulation of EGF receptor signaling pathway. negative regulation of EGF receptor signalling pathway. negative regulation of EGFR signaling pathway. Any process that stops, prevents, or reduces the frequency, rate or extent of epidermal growth factor receptor signaling pathway activity.
GO:0050771	negative regulation of axonogenesis. down regulation of axonogenesis. down-regulation of axonogenesis. downregulation of axonogenesis. inhibition of axonogenesis. Any process that stops, prevents, or reduces the frequency, rate or extent of axonogenesis.
GO:1901654	response to ketone. process resulting in tolerance to ketone. A response that results in a state of tolerance to ketone.
GO:0048871	multicellular organismal homeostasis. Any process involved in the maintenance of an internal steady state at the level of the multicellular organism.
GO:0070371	ERK1 and ERK2 cascade. ERK cascade. ERK1 and ERK2 signaling pathway. ERK1 and ERK2 signalling pathway. ERK1 cascade. ERK1/2 cascade. ERK2 cascade. extracellular signal-regulated kinase 1/2 (ERK1/2) cascade. extracellular signal-regulated kinase 1/2 cascade. MAPK1 cascade. MAPK3 cascade. An intracellular protein kinase cascade containing at least ERK1 or ERK2 (MAPKs), a MEK (a MAPKK) and a MAP3K. The cascade may involve 4 different kinases, as it can also contain an additional tier: the upstream MAP4K. The kinases in each tier phosphorylate and activate the kinase in the downstream tier to transmit a signal within a cell.
GO:0043543	protein acylation. protein amino acid acylation. The addition of an acyl group, any group or radical of the form RCO- where R is an organic group, to a protein amino acid.
GO:0046949	fatty-acyl-CoA biosynthetic process. fatty acyl CoA biosynthetic process. fatty-acyl-CoA anabolism. fatty-acyl-CoA biosynthesis. fatty-acyl-CoA formation. fatty-acyl-CoA synthesis. The chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the formation of a fatty-acyl-CoA, any derivative of coenzyme A in which the sulfhydryl group is in thiolester linkage with a fatty-acyl group.
GO:0042531	positive regulation of tyrosine phosphorylation of STAT protein. activation of tyrosine phosphorylation of STAT protein. activation of tyrosine phosphorylation of Stat1 protein. activation of tyrosine phosphorylation of Stat2 protein. activation of tyrosine phosphorylation of Stat3 protein. activation of tyrosine phosphorylation of Stat4 protein. activation of tyrosine phosphorylation of Stat5 protein. activation of tyrosine phosphorylation of Stat6 protein. activation of tyrosine phosphorylation of Stat7 protein. positive regulation of tyrosine phosphorylation of Stat1 protein. positive regulation of tyrosine phosphorylation of Stat2 protein. positive regulation of tyrosine phosphorylation of Stat3 protein. positive regulation of tyrosine phosphorylation of Stat4 protein. positive regulation of tyrosine phosphorylation of Stat5 protein. positive regulation of tyrosine phosphorylation of Stat6 protein. positive regulation of tyrosine phosphorylation of Stat7 protein. stimulation of tyrosine phosphorylation of STAT protein. stimulation of tyrosine phosphorylation of Stat1 protein. stimulation of tyrosine phosphorylation of Stat2 protein. stimulation of tyrosine phosphorylation of Stat3 protein. stimulation of tyrosine phosphorylation of Stat4 protein. stimulation of tyrosine phosphorylation of Stat5 protein. stimulation of tyrosine phosphorylation of Stat6 protein. stimulation of tyrosine phosphorylation of Stat7 protein. up regulation of tyrosine phosphorylation of STAT protein. up regulation of tyrosine phosphorylation of Stat1 protein. up regulation of tyrosine phosphorylation of Stat2 protein. up regulation of tyrosine phosphorylation of Stat3 protein. up regulation of tyrosine phosphorylation of Stat4 protein. up regulation of tyrosine phosphorylation of Stat5 protein. up regulation of tyrosine phosphorylation of Stat6 protein. up regulation of tyrosine phosphorylation of Stat7 protein. up-regulation of tyrosine phosphorylation of STAT protein. up-regulation of tyrosine phosphorylation of Stat1 protein. up-regulation of tyrosine phosphorylation of Stat2 protein. up-regulation of tyrosine phosphorylation of Stat3 protein. up-regulation of tyrosine phosphorylation of Stat4 protein. up-regulation of tyrosine phosphorylation of Stat5 protein. up-regulation of tyrosine phosphorylation of Stat6 protein. up-regulation of tyrosine phosphorylation of Stat7 protein. upregulation of tyrosine phosphorylation of STAT protein. upregulation of tyrosine phosphorylation of Stat1 protein. upregulation of tyrosine phosphorylation of Stat2 protein. upregulation of tyrosine phosphorylation of Stat3 protein. upregulation of tyrosine phosphorylation of Stat4 protein. upregulation of tyrosine phosphorylation of Stat5 protein. upregulation of tyrosine phosphorylation of Stat6 protein. upregulation of tyrosine phosphorylation of Stat7 protein. Any process that activates or increases the frequency, rate or extent of the introduction of a phosphate group to a tyrosine residue of a STAT (Signal Transducer and Activator of Transcription) protein.
GO:0120035	regulation of plasma membrane bounded cell projection organization. Any process that modulates the frequency, rate or extent of a process involved in the formation, arrangement of constituent parts, or disassembly of plasma membrane bounded cell projections.
GO:0043114	regulation of vascular permeability. Any process that modulates the extent to which blood vessels can be pervaded by fluid.
GO:0002521	leukocyte differentiation. immune cell differentiation. leucocyte differentiation. The process in which a relatively unspecialized hemopoietic precursor cell acquires the specialized features of a leukocyte. A leukocyte is an achromatic cell of the myeloid or lymphoid lineages capable of ameboid movement, found in blood or other tissue.
GO:0001817	regulation of cytokine production. regulation of cytokine anabolism. regulation of cytokine biosynthesis. regulation of cytokine biosynthetic process. regulation of cytokine formation. regulation of cytokine secretion. regulation of cytokine synthesis. Any process that modulates the frequency, rate, or extent of production of a cytokine.
GO:0016445	somatic diversification of immunoglobulins. somatic diversification of antibodies. The somatic process that results in the generation of sequence diversity of immunoglobulins.
GO:0045672	positive regulation of osteoclast differentiation. activation of osteoclast differentiation. stimulation of osteoclast differentiation. up regulation of osteoclast differentiation. up-regulation of osteoclast differentiation. upregulation of osteoclast differentiation. Any process that activates or increases the frequency, rate or extent of osteoclast differentiation.
GO:2000778	positive regulation of interleukin-6 production. activation of interleukin-6 production. positive regulation of IL-6 production. positive regulation of interleukin-6 biosynthetic process. positive regulation of interleukin-6 secretion. stimulation of interleukin-6 production. up regulation of interleukin-6 production. up-regulation of interleukin-6 production. upregulation of interleukin-6 production. Any process that activates or increases the frequency, rate, or extent of interleukin-6 production.
GO:0090257	regulation of muscle system process. Any process that modulates the frequency, rate or extent of a muscle system process, a multicellular organismal process carried out by any of the organs or tissues in a muscle system.
GO:0006898	receptor-mediated endocytosis. receptor mediated endocytosis. An endocytosis process in which cell surface receptors ensure specificity of transport. A specific receptor on the cell surface binds tightly to the extracellular macromolecule (the ligand) that it recognizes; the plasma-membrane region containing the receptor-ligand complex then undergoes endocytosis, forming a transport vesicle containing the receptor-ligand complex and excluding most other plasma-membrane proteins. Receptor-mediated endocytosis generally occurs via clathrin-coated pits and vesicles.
GO:0007605	sensory perception of sound. hearing. perception of sound. The series of events required for an organism to receive an auditory stimulus, convert it to a molecular signal, and recognize and characterize the signal. Sonic stimuli are detected in the form of vibrations and are processed to form a sound.
GO:0001503	ossification. bone biosynthesis. bone formation. osteogenesis. The formation of bone or of a bony substance, or the conversion of fibrous tissue or of cartilage into bone or a bony substance.
GO:0071398	cellular response to fatty acid. Any process that results in a change in state or activity of a cell (in terms of movement, secretion, enzyme production, gene expression, etc.) as a result of a fatty acid stimulus.
GO:0031571	mitotic G1 DNA damage checkpoint signaling. G1 DNA damage checkpoint. G1/S DNA damage checkpoint. intracellular signal transduction involved in G1 DNA damage checkpoint. intracellular signal transduction involved in G1/S DNA damage checkpoint. intracellular signal transduction pathway involved in G1 DNA damage checkpoint. intracellular signal transduction pathway involved in G1/S DNA damage checkpoint. intracellular signaling cascade involved in G1 DNA damage checkpoint. intracellular signaling cascade involved in G1/S DNA damage checkpoint. intracellular signaling chain involved in G1 DNA damage checkpoint. intracellular signaling chain involved in G1/S DNA damage checkpoint. intracellular signaling pathway involved in G1 DNA damage checkpoint. intracellular signaling pathway involved in G1/S DNA damage checkpoint. mitotic cell cycle G1/S transition DNA damage checkpoint. mitotic G1 DNA damage checkpoint. signal transduction involved in mitotic cell cycle G1/S transition DNA damage checkpoint. signal transduction involved in mitotic G1 DNA damage checkpoint. signal transduction via intracellular signaling cascade involved in G1 DNA damage checkpoint. signal transduction via intracellular signaling cascade involved in G1/S DNA damage checkpoint. signal transmission via intracellular cascade involved in G1 DNA damage checkpoint. A signal transduction process that contributes to a mitotic cell cycle G1/S transition DNA damage checkpoint.
GO:0002066	columnar/cuboidal epithelial cell development. The process whose specific outcome is the progression of a columnar/cuboidal epithelial cell over time, from its formation to the mature structure. A columnar/cuboidal epithelial cell is a cell usually found in a two dimensional sheet with a free surface. Columnar/cuboidal epithelial cells take on the shape of a column or cube.
GO:2001235	positive regulation of apoptotic signaling pathway. positive regulation of apoptotic signalling pathway. Any process that activates or increases the frequency, rate or extent of apoptotic signaling pathway.
GO:0009066	aspartate family amino acid metabolic process. aspartate family amino acid metabolism. The chemical reactions and pathways involving amino acids of the aspartate family, comprising asparagine, aspartate, lysine, methionine and threonine.
GO:0016052	carbohydrate catabolic process. carbohydrate breakdown. carbohydrate catabolism. carbohydrate degradation. catabolic carbohydrate metabolic process. catabolic carbohydrate metabolism. multicellular organismal carbohydrate catabolic process. single-organism carbohydrate catabolic process. The chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the breakdown of carbohydrates, any of a group of organic compounds based of the general formula Cx(H2O)y.
GO:0031398	positive regulation of protein ubiquitination. activation of protein ubiquitination. stimulation of protein ubiquitination. up regulation of protein ubiquitination. up-regulation of protein ubiquitination. upregulation of protein ubiquitination. Any process that activates or increases the frequency, rate or extent of the addition of ubiquitin groups to a protein.
GO:0010605	negative regulation of macromolecule metabolic process. Any process that decreases the frequency, rate or extent of the chemical reactions and pathways involving macromolecules, any molecule of high relative molecular mass, the structure of which essentially comprises the multiple repetition of units derived, actually or conceptually, from molecules of low relative molecular mass.
GO:0008589	regulation of smoothened signaling pathway. regulation of hedgehog signaling pathway. regulation of hh signaling pathway. regulation of smoothened activity. regulation of smoothened by patched. regulation of smoothened receptor activity by patched. regulation of smoothened signalling pathway. Any process that modulates the frequency, rate or extent of smoothened signaling.
GO:0042110	T cell activation. T lymphocyte activation. T-cell activation. T-lymphocyte activation. The change in morphology and behavior of a mature or immature T cell resulting from exposure to a mitogen, cytokine, chemokine, cellular ligand, or an antigen for which it is specific.
GO:0098542	defense response to other organism. defence response incompatible interaction. defence response to pathogen, incompatible interaction. defense response, incompatible interaction. resistance response to pathogen. Reactions triggered in response to the presence of another organism that act to protect the cell or organism from damage caused by that organism.
GO:0043525	positive regulation of neuron apoptotic process. activation of neuron apoptosis. positive regulation of neuron apoptosis. positive regulation of programmed cell death, neurons. stimulation of neuron apoptosis. up regulation of neuron apoptosis. up-regulation of neuron apoptosis. upregulation of neuron apoptosis. Any process that activates or increases the frequency, rate or extent of cell death of neurons by apoptotic process.
GO:0045087	innate immune response. innate immunity. nonspecific immune response. Innate immune responses are defense responses mediated by germline encoded components that directly recognize components of potential pathogens.
GO:0034754	cellular hormone metabolic process. The chemical reactions and pathways involving any hormone, naturally occurring substances secreted by specialized cells that affects the metabolism or behavior of other cells possessing functional receptors for the hormone, as carried out by individual cells.
GO:0002888	positive regulation of myeloid leukocyte mediated immunity. activation of myeloid leukocyte mediated immunity. stimulation of myeloid leukocyte mediated immunity. up regulation of myeloid leukocyte mediated immunity. up-regulation of myeloid leukocyte mediated immunity. upregulation of myeloid leukocyte mediated immunity. Any process that activates or increases the frequency, rate, or extent of myeloid leukocyte mediated immunity.
GO:0048143	astrocyte activation. A change in morphology and behavior of an astrocyte resulting from exposure to a cytokine, chemokine, cellular ligand, or soluble factor.
GO:0090596	sensory organ morphogenesis. Morphogenesis of a sensory organ. A sensory organ is defined as a tissue or set of tissues that work together to receive and transmit signals from external or internal stimuli. Morphogenesis is the process in which anatomical structures are generated and organized. Organs are commonly observed as visibly distinct structures, but may also exist as loosely associated clusters of cells that work together to perform a specific function or functions.
GO:0051894	positive regulation of focal adhesion assembly. activation of focal adhesion formation. stimulation of focal adhesion formation. up regulation of focal adhesion formation. up-regulation of focal adhesion formation. upregulation of focal adhesion formation. Any process that activates or increases the frequency, rate or extent of focal adhesion assembly, the establishment and maturation of focal adhesions.
GO:0044273	sulfur compound catabolic process. sulfur catabolic process. sulfur catabolism. sulfur compound breakdown. sulfur compound catabolism. sulfur compound degradation. The chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the breakdown of compounds that contain sulfur, such as the amino acids methionine and cysteine or the tripeptide glutathione.
GO:0016137	glycoside metabolic process. glycoside metabolism. O-glycoside metabolic process. O-glycoside metabolism. The chemical reactions and pathways involving glycosides, compounds in which a glycosyl group is substituted into a hydroxyl, thiol or selenol group in another compound.
GO:0010667	negative regulation of cardiac muscle cell apoptotic process. down regulation of cardiac muscle cell apoptosis. down-regulation of cardiac muscle cell apoptosis. downregulation of cardiac muscle cell apoptosis. inhibition of cardiac muscle cell apoptosis. negative regulation of cardiac muscle cell apoptosis. Any process that decreases the rate or extent of cardiac cell apoptotic process, a form of programmed cell death induced by external or internal signals that trigger the activity of proteolytic caspases whose actions dismantle a cardiac muscle cell and result in its death.
GO:0051222	positive regulation of protein transport. activation of protein transport. stimulation of protein transport. up regulation of protein transport. up-regulation of protein transport. upregulation of protein transport. Any process that activates or increases the frequency, rate or extent of the directed movement of a protein into, out of or within a cell, or between cells, by means of some agent such as a transporter or pore.
GO:1902003	regulation of amyloid-beta formation. regulation of beta-amyloid formation. Any process that modulates the frequency, rate or extent of amyloid-beta formation.
GO:0006757	ATP generation from ADP. ADP phosphorylation. The process of introducing a phosphate group into ADP, adenosine diphosphate, to produce ATP.
GO:1902476	chloride transmembrane transport. The process in which chloride is transported across a membrane.
GO:0099504	synaptic vesicle cycle. A biological process in which synaptic vesicles are loaded with neurotransmitters, move to the active zone, exocytose and are then recycled via endocytosis, ultimately leading to reloading with neurotransmitters.
GO:0033081	regulation of T cell differentiation in thymus. regulation of T cell development in thymus. regulation of thymic T cell differentiation. regulation of thymocyte cell differentiation. regulation of thymocyte differentiation. Any process that modulates the frequency, rate or extent of T cell differentiation in the thymus.
GO:0034605	cellular response to heat. cellular response to heat stress. Any process that results in a change in state or activity of a cell (in terms of movement, secretion, enzyme production, gene expression, etc.) as a result of a heat stimulus, a temperature stimulus above the optimal temperature for that organism.
GO:0048520	positive regulation of behavior. activation of behavior. stimulation of behavior. up regulation of behavior. up-regulation of behavior. upregulation of behavior. Any process that activates or increases the frequency, rate or extent of behavior, the internally coordinated responses (actions or inactions) of whole living organisms (individuals or groups) to internal or external stimuli.
GO:0055085	transmembrane transport. ATP hydrolysis coupled transmembrane transport. membrane transport. The process in which a solute is transported across a lipid bilayer, from one side of a membrane to the other.
GO:0002702	positive regulation of production of molecular mediator of immune response. activation of production of molecular mediator of immune response. stimulation of production of molecular mediator of immune response. up regulation of production of molecular mediator of immune response. up-regulation of production of molecular mediator of immune response. upregulation of production of molecular mediator of immune response. Any process that activates or increases the frequency, rate, or extent of the production of molecular mediator of immune response.
GO:1903706	regulation of hemopoiesis. regulation of blood cell biosynthesis. regulation of blood cell formation. regulation of haemopoiesis. regulation of hematopoiesis. Any process that modulates the frequency, rate or extent of hemopoiesis.
GO:0008219	cell death. accidental cell death. necrosis. Any biological process that results in permanent cessation of all vital functions of a cell. A cell should be considered dead when any one of the following molecular or morphological criteria is met: (1) the cell has lost the integrity of its plasma membrane; (2) the cell, including its nucleus, has undergone complete fragmentation into discrete bodies (frequently referred to as apoptotic bodies). The cell corpse (or its fragments) may be engulfed by an adjacent cell in vivo, but engulfment of whole cells should not be considered a strict criteria to define cell death as, under some circumstances, live engulfed cells can be released from phagosomes (see PMID:18045538).
GO:0051570	regulation of histone H3-K9 methylation. Any process that modulates the frequency, rate or extent of the covalent addition of a methyl group to the lysine at position 9 of histone H3.
GO:0050856	regulation of T cell receptor signaling pathway. regulation of T lymphocyte receptor signaling pathway. regulation of T lymphocyte receptor signalling pathway. regulation of T-cell receptor signaling pathway. regulation of T-cell receptor signalling pathway. regulation of T-lymphocyte receptor signaling pathway. regulation of T-lymphocyte receptor signalling pathway. regulation of TCR signaling pathway. Any process that modulates the frequency, rate or extent of signaling pathways initiated by the cross-linking of an antigen receptor on a T cell.
GO:0040011	locomotion. Self-propelled movement of a cell or organism from one location to another.
GO:0042104	positive regulation of activated T cell proliferation. activation of activated T cell proliferation. positive regulation of activated T lymphocyte proliferation. positive regulation of activated T-cell proliferation. positive regulation of activated T-lymphocyte proliferation. stimulation of activated T cell proliferation. up regulation of activated T cell proliferation. up-regulation of activated T cell proliferation. upregulation of activated T cell proliferation. Any process that activates or increases the rate or extent of activated T cell proliferation.
GO:0060042	retina morphogenesis in camera-type eye. retina morphogenesis in camera-style eye. retinogenesis. The process in which the anatomical structure of the retina is generated and organized.
GO:0051402	neuron apoptotic process. apoptosis of neuronal cells. apoptosis of neurons. neuron apoptosis. neuron programmed cell death by apoptosis. neuronal cell apoptosis. neuronal cell programmed cell death by apoptosis. programmed cell death of neuronal cells by apoptosis. programmed cell death of neurons by apoptosis. programmed cell death, neuronal cells. programmed cell death, neurons. Any apoptotic process in a neuron, the basic cellular unit of nervous tissue. Each neuron consists of a body, an axon, and dendrites. Their purpose is to receive, conduct, and transmit impulses in the nervous system.
GO:0007507	heart development. cardiac development. dorsal vessel development. The process whose specific outcome is the progression of the heart over time, from its formation to the mature structure. The heart is a hollow, muscular organ, which, by contracting rhythmically, keeps up the circulation of the blood.
GO:0050732	negative regulation of peptidyl-tyrosine phosphorylation. down regulation of peptidyl-tyrosine phosphorylation. down-regulation of peptidyl-tyrosine phosphorylation. downregulation of peptidyl-tyrosine phosphorylation. inhibition of peptidyl-tyrosine phosphorylation. Any process that stops, prevents, or reduces the frequency, rate or extent of the phosphorylation of peptidyl-tyrosine.
GO:0001945	lymph vessel development. The process whose specific outcome is the progression of a lymph vessel over time, from its formation to the mature structure.
GO:0002367	cytokine production involved in immune response. cytokine biosynthetic process involved in immune response. cytokine production during immune response. cytokine secretion during immune response. cytokine secretion involved in immune response. The appearance of a cytokine due to biosynthesis or secretion following a cellular stimulus contributing to an immune response, resulting in an increase in its intracellular or extracellular levels.
GO:0021872	forebrain generation of neurons. generation of neurons in forebrain. The process in which nerve cells are generated in the forebrain. This includes the production of neuroblasts from and their differentiation into neurons.
GO:1901136	carbohydrate derivative catabolic process. carbohydrate derivative breakdown. carbohydrate derivative catabolism. carbohydrate derivative degradation. The chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the breakdown of carbohydrate derivative.
GO:0044030	regulation of DNA methylation. Any process that modulates the frequency, rate or extent of the covalent transfer of a methyl group to either N-6 of adenine or C-5 or N-4 of cytosine.
GO:0030195	negative regulation of blood coagulation. down regulation of blood coagulation. down-regulation of blood coagulation. downregulation of blood coagulation. inhibition of blood coagulation. Any process that stops, prevents, or reduces the frequency, rate or extent of blood coagulation.
GO:0060444	branching involved in mammary gland duct morphogenesis. mammary gland branching morphogenesis. The process in which the branching structure of the mammary gland duct is generated and organized. The mammary gland is a large compound sebaceous gland that in female mammals is modified to secrete milk.
GO:0050853	B cell receptor signaling pathway. B cell receptor signalling pathway. B lymphocyte receptor signaling pathway. B lymphocyte receptor signalling pathway. B-cell receptor signaling pathway. B-cell receptor signalling pathway. B-lymphocyte receptor signaling pathway. B-lymphocyte receptor signalling pathway. The series of molecular signals initiated by the cross-linking of an antigen receptor on a B cell.
GO:0008584	male gonad development. testicular development. testis development. The process whose specific outcome is the progression of the male gonad over time, from its formation to the mature structure.
GO:0045648	positive regulation of erythrocyte differentiation. activation of erythrocyte differentiation. positive regulation of RBC differentiation. positive regulation of red blood cell differentiation. stimulation of erythrocyte differentiation. up regulation of erythrocyte differentiation. up-regulation of erythrocyte differentiation. upregulation of erythrocyte differentiation. Any process that activates or increases the frequency, rate or extent of erythrocyte differentiation.
GO:0051336	regulation of hydrolase activity. hydrolase regulator. Any process that modulates the frequency, rate or extent of hydrolase activity, the catalysis of the hydrolysis of various bonds, e.g. C-O, C-N, C-C, phosphoric anhydride bonds, etc. Hydrolase is the systematic name for any enzyme of EC class 3.
GO:0036151	phosphatidylcholine acyl-chain remodeling. Remodeling the acyl chains of phosphatidylcholine, through sequential deacylation and re-acylation reactions, to generate phosphatidylcholine containing different types of fatty acid acyl chains.
GO:0022617	extracellular matrix disassembly. A process that results in the breakdown of the extracellular matrix.
GO:0007030	Golgi organization. Golgi organisation. Golgi organization and biogenesis. A process that is carried out at the cellular level which results in the assembly, arrangement of constituent parts, or disassembly of the Golgi apparatus.
GO:0043951	negative regulation of cAMP-mediated signaling. negative regulation of cAMP-mediated signalling. Any process which stops, prevents, or reduces the frequency, rate or extent of cAMP-mediated signaling.
GO:0034765	regulation of ion transmembrane transport. regulation of ion membrane transport. regulation of transmembrane ion transport. Any process that modulates the frequency, rate or extent of the directed movement of ions from one side of a membrane to the other.
GO:0006816	calcium ion transport. calcium transport. mitochondrial sodium/calcium ion exchange. sodium:calcium exchange. The directed movement of calcium (Ca) ions into, out of or within a cell, or between cells, by means of some agent such as a transporter or pore.
GO:0019932	second-messenger-mediated signaling. second messenger mediated signaling. second messenger mediated signalling. second messenger-mediated signaling. second messenger-mediated signalling. second-messenger-mediated signal transduction. second-messenger-mediated signalling. Any intracellular signal transduction in which the signal is passed on within the cell via a second messenger; a small molecule or ion that can be quickly generated or released from intracellular stores, and can diffuse within the cell. Second-messenger signaling includes production or release of the second messenger, and effectors downstream of the second messenger that further transmit the signal within the cell.
GO:0051048	negative regulation of secretion. down regulation of secretion. down-regulation of secretion. downregulation of secretion. inhibition of secretion. Any process that stops, prevents, or reduces the frequency, rate or extent of the controlled release of a substance from a cell or a tissue.
GO:1902745	positive regulation of lamellipodium organization. activation of lamellipodium organization. up regulation of lamellipodium organization. up-regulation of lamellipodium organization. upregulation of lamellipodium organization. Any process that activates or increases the frequency, rate or extent of lamellipodium organization.
GO:0043900	obsolete regulation of multi-organism process. OBSOLETE. Any process that modulates the frequency, rate or extent of a multi-organism process, a process in which an organism has an effect on another organism of the same or different species.
GO:0071214	cellular response to abiotic stimulus. cellular response to abiotic stress. Any process that results in a change in state or activity of a cell (in terms of movement, secretion, enzyme production, gene expression, etc.) as a result of an abiotic (non-living) stimulus.
GO:0001708	cell fate specification. The process involved in the specification of cell identity. Once specification has taken place, a cell will be committed to differentiate down a specific pathway if left in its normal environment.
GO:0034502	protein localization to chromosome. condensin localization to chromosome. protein localisation to chromosome. Any process in which a protein is transported to, or maintained at, a specific location on a chromosome.
GO:1900740	positive regulation of protein insertion into mitochondrial membrane involved in apoptotic signaling pathway. activation of insertion of proteins into mitochondrial membranes during the induction of apoptosis. activation of protein insertion into mitochondrial membrane during induction of apoptosis. activation of protein insertion into mitochondrial membrane involved in apoptotic signaling pathway. activation of protein insertion into mitochondrial membrane involved in induction of apoptosis. activation of protein insertion into mitochondrion membrane during induction of apoptosis. positive regulation of insertion of proteins into mitochondrial membranes during the induction of apoptosis. positive regulation of protein insertion into mitochondrial membrane during induction of apoptosis. positive regulation of protein insertion into mitochondrial membrane involved in induction of apoptosis. positive regulation of protein insertion into mitochondrion membrane during induction of apoptosis. up regulation of insertion of proteins into mitochondrial membranes during the induction of apoptosis. up regulation of protein insertion into mitochondrial membrane during induction of apoptosis. up regulation of protein insertion into mitochondrial membrane involved in apoptotic signaling pathway. up regulation of protein insertion into mitochondrial membrane involved in induction of apoptosis. up regulation of protein insertion into mitochondrion membrane during induction of apoptosis. up-regulation of insertion of proteins into mitochondrial membranes during the induction of apoptosis. up-regulation of protein insertion into mitochondrial membrane during induction of apoptosis. up-regulation of protein insertion into mitochondrial membrane involved in apoptotic signaling pathway. up-regulation of protein insertion into mitochondrial membrane involved in induction of apoptosis. up-regulation of protein insertion into mitochondrion membrane during induction of apoptosis. upregulation of insertion of proteins into mitochondrial membranes during the induction of apoptosis. upregulation of protein insertion into mitochondrial membrane during induction of apoptosis. upregulation of protein insertion into mitochondrial membrane involved in apoptotic signaling pathway. upregulation of protein insertion into mitochondrial membrane involved in induction of apoptosis. upregulation of protein insertion into mitochondrion membrane during induction of apoptosis. Any process that activates or increases the frequency, rate or extent of protein insertion into mitochondrial membrane involved in apoptotic signaling pathway.
GO:0002067	glandular epithelial cell differentiation. The process in which a relatively unspecialized cell acquires specialized features of a glandular epithelial cell. A glandular epithelial cell is a columnar/cuboidal epithelial cell found in a two dimensional sheet with a free surface exposed to the lumen of a gland.
GO:0002697	regulation of immune effector process. Any process that modulates the frequency, rate, or extent of an immune effector process.
GO:0120031	plasma membrane bounded cell projection assembly. eupodium. Formation of a prolongation or process extending and that is bounded by plasma membrane, e.g. a cilium, lamellipodium, or axon.
GO:0015908	fatty acid transport. The directed movement of fatty acids into, out of or within a cell, or between cells, by means of some agent such as a transporter or pore. Fatty acids are aliphatic monocarboxylic acids liberated from naturally occurring fats and oils by hydrolysis.
GO:0009142	nucleoside triphosphate biosynthetic process. nucleoside triphosphate anabolism. nucleoside triphosphate biosynthesis. nucleoside triphosphate formation. nucleoside triphosphate synthesis. The chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the formation of a nucleoside triphosphate, a compound consisting of a nucleobase linked to a deoxyribose or ribose sugar esterified with triphosphate on the sugar.
GO:0051961	negative regulation of nervous system development. down regulation of nervous system development. down-regulation of nervous system development. downregulation of nervous system development. inhibition of nervous system development. Any process that stops, prevents, or reduces the frequency, rate or extent of nervous system development, the origin and formation of nervous tissue.
GO:0050852	T cell receptor signaling pathway. T lymphocyte receptor signaling pathway. T lymphocyte receptor signalling pathway. T-cell receptor signaling pathway. T-cell receptor signalling pathway. T-lymphocyte receptor signaling pathway. T-lymphocyte receptor signalling pathway. TCR signaling pathway. The series of molecular signals initiated by the cross-linking of an antigen receptor on a T cell.
GO:2000810	regulation of bicellular tight junction assembly. regulation of tight junction formation. Any process that modulates the frequency, rate or extent of tight junction assembly.
GO:0061036	positive regulation of cartilage development. Any process that increases the rate, frequency, or extent of cartilage development, the process whose specific outcome is the progression of the cartilage over time, from its formation to the mature structure. Cartilage is a connective tissue dominated by extracellular matrix containing collagen type II and large amounts of proteoglycan, particularly chondroitin sulfate.
GO:0046676	negative regulation of insulin secretion. down regulation of insulin secretion. down-regulation of insulin secretion. downregulation of insulin secretion. inhibition of insulin secretion. Any process that stops, prevents, or reduces the frequency, rate or extent of the regulated release of insulin.
GO:0120163	negative regulation of cold-induced thermogenesis. negative regulation of CIT. Any process that stops, prevents, or reduces the rate of cold-induced thermogenesis.
GO:0051973	positive regulation of telomerase activity. activation of telomerase activity. stimulation of telomerase activity. telomerase activator. up regulation of telomerase activity. up-regulation of telomerase activity. upregulation of telomerase activity. Any process that activates or increases the frequency, rate or extent of telomerase activity, the catalysis of the reaction: deoxynucleoside triphosphate + DNA(n) = diphosphate + DNA(n+1).
GO:0032461	positive regulation of protein oligomerization. activation of protein oligomerization. induction of protein oligomerization. stimulation of protein oligomerization. up regulation of protein oligomerization. up-regulation of protein oligomerization. upregulation of protein oligomerization. Any process that activates or increases the frequency, rate or extent of protein oligomerization.
GO:0048880	sensory system development. The process whose specific outcome is the progression of a sensory system over time from its formation to the mature structure.
GO:0043488	regulation of mRNA stability. Any process that modulates the propensity of mRNA molecules to degradation. Includes processes that both stabilize and destabilize mRNAs.
GO:0003014	renal system process. excretory system process. kidney system process. A organ system process carried out by any of the organs or tissues of the renal system. The renal system maintains fluid balance, and contributes to electrolyte balance, acid/base balance, and disposal of nitrogenous waste products. In humans, the renal system comprises a pair of kidneys, a pair of ureters, urinary bladder, urethra, sphincter muscle and associated blood vessels; in other species, the renal system may comprise related structures (e.g., nephrocytes and malpighian tubules in Drosophila).
GO:0051168	nuclear export. export from nucleus. nucleus export. substance nuclear export. The directed movement of substances out of the nucleus.
GO:0044257	protein catabolic process. cellular protein breakdown. cellular protein catabolic process. cellular protein catabolism. cellular protein degradation. multicellular organismal protein catabolic process. pheromone catabolic process. pheromone catabolism. protein breakdown. protein catabolism. protein degradation. The chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the breakdown of a protein by the destruction of the native, active configuration, with or without the hydrolysis of peptide bonds.
GO:0030301	cholesterol transport. The directed movement of cholesterol, cholest-5-en-3-beta-ol, into, out of or within a cell, or between cells, by means of some agent such as a transporter or pore.
GO:0006888	endoplasmic reticulum to Golgi vesicle-mediated transport. anterograde (ER to Golgi) transport. anterograde transport, endoplasmic reticulum to Golgi. anterograde transport, ER to Golgi. anterograde vesicle-mediated transport, endoplasmic reticulum to Golgi. anterograde vesicle-mediated transport, ER to Golgi. endoplasmic reticulum to Golgi transport. ER to Golgi transport. ER to Golgi vesicle-mediated transport. rough endoplasmic reticulum to cis-Golgi transport. rough endoplasmic reticulum to cis-Golgi vesicle-mediated transport. rough ER to cis-Golgi transport. rough ER to cis-Golgi vesicle-mediated transport. The directed movement of substances from the endoplasmic reticulum (ER) to the Golgi, mediated by COP II vesicles. Small COP II coated vesicles form from the ER and then fuse directly with the cis-Golgi. Larger structures are transported along microtubules to the cis-Golgi.
GO:0008206	bile acid metabolic process. bile acid metabolism. The chemical reactions and pathways involving bile acids, a group of steroid carboxylic acids occurring in bile, where they are present as the sodium salts of their amides with glycine or taurine.
GO:0034377	plasma lipoprotein particle assembly. The non-covalent aggregation and arrangement of proteins and lipids to form a plasma lipoprotein particle.
GO:0006413	translational initiation. biopolymerisation. biopolymerization. protein synthesis initiation. translation initiation. The process preceding formation of the peptide bond between the first two amino acids of a protein. This includes the formation of a complex of the ribosome, mRNA or circRNA, and an initiation complex that contains the first aminoacyl-tRNA.
GO:0051656	establishment of organelle localization. establishment of organelle localisation. The directed movement of an organelle to a specific location.
GO:0048666	neuron development. The process whose specific outcome is the progression of a neuron over time, from initial commitment of the cell to a specific fate, to the fully functional differentiated cell.
GO:0007204	positive regulation of cytosolic calcium ion concentration. cytoplasmic calcium ion concentration elevation. cytosolic calcium ion concentration elevation. elevation of calcium ion concentration in cytoplasm. elevation of calcium ion concentration in cytosol. elevation of cytoplasmic calcium ion concentration. elevation of cytosolic calcium ion concentration. Any process that increases the concentration of calcium ions in the cytosol.
GO:0010595	positive regulation of endothelial cell migration. Any process that increases the rate, frequency, or extent of the orderly movement of an endothelial cell into the extracellular matrix to form an endothelium.
GO:0010885	regulation of cholesterol storage. Any process that modulates the rate or extent of cholesterol storage. Cholesterol storage is the accumulation and maintenance in cells or tissues of cholesterol, cholest-5-en-3 beta-ol, the principal sterol of vertebrates and the precursor of many steroids, including bile acids and steroid hormones.
GO:0072012	glomerulus vasculature development. glomerulus capillary development. The biological process whose specific outcome is the progression of a glomerulus vasculature from an initial condition to its mature state. This process begins with the formation of the glomerulus vasculature and ends with the mature structure. The glomerulus vasculature is composed of the tubule structures that carry blood or lymph in the glomerulus.
GO:0046688	response to copper ion. copper sensitivity/resistance. response to copper. Any process that results in a change in state or activity of a cell or an organism (in terms of movement, secretion, enzyme production, gene expression, etc.) as a result of a copper ion stimulus.
GO:0061515	myeloid cell development. The process whose specific outcome is the progression of a myeloid cell over time, from its formation to the mature structure.
GO:0032092	positive regulation of protein binding. activation of protein binding. stimulation of protein binding. up regulation of protein binding. up-regulation of protein binding. upregulation of protein binding. Any process that activates or increases the frequency, rate or extent of protein binding.
GO:0000187	obsolete activation of MAPK activity. activation of MAP kinase. activation of MAPK activity during sporulation. MAPK activation. OBSOLETE. The initiation of the activity of the inactive enzyme MAP kinase (MAPK).
GO:0009117	nucleotide metabolic process. nucleotide metabolism. The chemical reactions and pathways involving a nucleotide, a nucleoside that is esterified with (ortho)phosphate or an oligophosphate at any hydroxyl group on the glycose moiety; may be mono-, di- or triphosphate; this definition includes cyclic nucleotides (nucleoside cyclic phosphates).
GO:0032350	regulation of hormone metabolic process. regulation of hormone metabolism. Any process that modulates the frequency, rate or extent of the chemical reactions and pathways involving any hormone.
GO:0090630	activation of GTPase activity. activation of ARF GTPase activity. activation of Cdc42 GTPase activity. activation of Rab GTPase activity. activation of Rac GTPase activity. activation of Ral GTPase activity. activation of Ran GTPase activity. activation of Rap GTPase activity. activation of Ras GTPase activity. activation of Rho GTPase activity. ARF GTPase activation. Cdc42 GTPase activation. Rab GTPase activation. Rac GTPase activation. Ral GTPase activation. Ran GTPase activation. Rap GTPase activation. Ras GTPase activation. Rho GTPase activation. Any process that initiates the activity of an inactive GTPase through the replacement of GDP by GTP.
GO:0010800	positive regulation of peptidyl-threonine phosphorylation. Any process that increases the frequency, rate or extent of peptidyl-threonine phosphorylation. Peptidyl-threonine phosphorylation is the phosphorylation of peptidyl-threonine to form peptidyl-O-phospho-L-threonine.
GO:0010975	regulation of neuron projection development. regulation of neurite biosynthesis. regulation of neurite development. regulation of neurite formation. regulation of neurite growth. Any process that modulates the rate, frequency or extent of neuron projection development. Neuron projection development is the process whose specific outcome is the progression of a neuron projection over time, from its formation to the mature structure. A neuron projection is any process extending from a neural cell, such as axons or dendrites (collectively called neurites).
GO:0010035	response to inorganic substance. Any process that results in a change in state or activity of a cell or an organism (in terms of movement, secretion, enzyme production, gene expression, etc.) as a result of an inorganic substance stimulus.
GO:0071872	cellular response to epinephrine stimulus. cellular response to adrenaline stimulus. Any process that results in a change in state or activity of a cell (in terms of movement, secretion, enzyme production, gene expression, etc.) as a result of an epinephrine stimulus. Epinephrine is a catecholamine that has the formula C9H13NO3; it is secreted by the adrenal medulla to act as a hormone, and released by certain neurons to act as a neurotransmitter active in the central nervous system.
GO:0002861	regulation of inflammatory response to antigenic stimulus. Any process that modulates the frequency, rate, or extent of an inflammatory response to an antigenic stimulus.
GO:0031648	protein destabilization. negative regulation of protein stability. protein destabilisation. Any process that decreases the stability of a protein, making it more vulnerable to degradative processes or aggregation.
GO:0006473	protein acetylation. protein amino acid acetylation. The addition of an acetyl group to a protein amino acid. An acetyl group is CH3CO-, derived from acetic [ethanoic] acid.
GO:0048732	gland development. The process whose specific outcome is the progression of a gland over time, from its formation to the mature structure. A gland is an organ specialised for secretion.
GO:0008277	regulation of G protein-coupled receptor signaling pathway. regulation of G protein coupled receptor protein signaling pathway. regulation of G protein coupled receptor protein signalling pathway. regulation of G-protein coupled receptor protein signaling pathway. regulation of G-protein coupled receptor protein signalling pathway. regulation of G-protein-coupled receptor protein signalling pathway. regulation of GPCR protein signaling pathway. regulation of GPCR protein signalling pathway. Any process that modulates the frequency, rate or extent of G protein-coupled receptor signaling pathway.
GO:0032469	endoplasmic reticulum calcium ion homeostasis. calcium ion homeostasis in endoplasmic reticulum. calcium ion homeostasis in ER. endoplasmic reticulum calcium ion concentration regulation. ER calcium ion concentration regulation. ER calcium ion homeostasis. regulation of calcium ion concentration in endoplasmic reticulum. regulation of calcium ion concentration in ER. regulation of endoplasmic reticulum calcium ion concentration. regulation of ER calcium ion concentration. Any process involved in the maintenance of an internal steady state of calcium ions within the endoplasmic reticulum of a cell or between the endoplasmic reticulum and its surroundings.
GO:0017157	regulation of exocytosis. Any process that modulates the frequency, rate or extent of exocytosis.
GO:0045746	negative regulation of Notch signaling pathway. down regulation of Notch signaling pathway. down-regulation of Notch signaling pathway. downregulation of Notch signaling pathway. inhibition of Notch signaling pathway. negative regulation of N signaling pathway. negative regulation of N signalling pathway. negative regulation of Notch signalling pathway. Any process that stops, prevents, or reduces the frequency, rate or extent of the Notch signaling pathway.
GO:0043038	amino acid activation. The modification of an amino acid to an active form, for incorporation into a peptide, protein or other macromolecule.
GO:0048747	muscle cell development. muscle fiber development. muscle fibre development. myofiber development. myofibre development. The process whose specific outcome is the progression of a muscle cell over time, from its formation to the mature structure. Muscle cell development does not include the steps involved in committing an unspecified cell to the muscle cell fate.
GO:0002704	negative regulation of leukocyte mediated immunity. down regulation of leukocyte mediated immunity. down-regulation of leukocyte mediated immunity. downregulation of leukocyte mediated immunity. inhibition of leukocyte mediated immunity. negative regulation of immune cell mediated immunity. negative regulation of leucocyte mediated immunity. Any process that stops, prevents, or reduces the frequency, rate, or extent of leukocyte mediated immunity.
GO:0032651	regulation of interleukin-1 beta production. regulation of IL-1 beta production. regulation of interleukin-1 beta biosynthetic process. regulation of interleukin-1 beta secretion. Any process that modulates the frequency, rate, or extent of interleukin-1 beta production.
GO:0044248	cellular catabolic process. cellular breakdown. cellular catabolism. cellular degradation. The chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the breakdown of substances, carried out by individual cells.
GO:0007612	learning. Any process in an organism in which a relatively long-lasting adaptive behavioral change occurs as the result of experience.
GO:0060134	prepulse inhibition. PPI. pre-pulse inhibition. The process in which a startle magnitude is reduced when the startling stimulus is preceded by a low-intensity prepulse.
GO:0071549	cellular response to dexamethasone stimulus. Any process that results in a change in state or activity of a cell (in terms of movement, secretion, enzyme production, gene expression, etc.) as a result of a dexamethasone stimulus.
GO:0031638	zymogen activation. zymogen activation by proteolytic cleavage. The proteolytic processing of an inactive enzyme to an active form.
GO:0060334	regulation of interferon-gamma-mediated signaling pathway. regulation of gamma-interferon-mediated signaling pathway. regulation of immune interferon signaling pathway. regulation of interferon-gamma-mediated signalling pathway. regulation of type II IFN-mediated signaling pathway. regulation of type II interferon-mediated signaling pathway. Any process that modulates the rate, frequency or extent of an interferon-gamma-mediated signaling pathway.
GO:0009074	aromatic amino acid family catabolic process. aromatic amino acid family breakdown. aromatic amino acid family catabolism. aromatic amino acid family degradation. The chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the breakdown of aromatic amino acid family, amino acids with aromatic ring (phenylalanine, tyrosine, tryptophan).
GO:0007043	cell-cell junction assembly. intercellular junction assembly. The aggregation, arrangement and bonding together of a set of components to form a junction between cells.
GO:0042127	regulation of cell population proliferation. regulation of cell proliferation. Any process that modulates the frequency, rate or extent of cell proliferation.
GO:0046939	nucleotide phosphorylation. The process of introducing one or more phosphate groups into a nucleotide to produce a phosphorylated nucleoside.
GO:0042447	hormone catabolic process. hormone breakdown. hormone catabolism. hormone degradation. The chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the breakdown of any hormone, naturally occurring substances secreted by specialized cells that affects the metabolism or behavior of other cells possessing functional receptors for the hormone.
GO:0010869	obsolete regulation of receptor biosynthetic process. OBSOLETE. Any process that modulates the frequency or rate of receptor biosynthesis. Receptor biosynthesis is the collection of chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the formation of a receptor molecule, a macromolecule that undergoes combination with a hormone, neurotransmitter, drug or intracellular messenger to initiate a change in cell function.
GO:0043413	macromolecule glycosylation. The covalent attachment of a glycosyl residue to one or more monomeric units in a polypeptide, polynucleotide, polysaccharide, or other biological macromolecule.
GO:0045446	endothelial cell differentiation. The process in which a mesodermal, bone marrow or neural crest cell acquires specialized features of an endothelial cell, a thin flattened cell. A layer of such cells lines the inside surfaces of body cavities, blood vessels, and lymph vessels, making up the endothelium.
GO:0071375	cellular response to peptide hormone stimulus. cellular response to polypeptide hormone stimulus. Any process that results in a change in state or activity of a cell (in terms of movement, secretion, enzyme production, gene expression, etc.) as a result of a peptide hormone stimulus. A peptide hormone is any of a class of peptides that are secreted into the blood stream and have endocrine functions in living animals.
GO:0010565	regulation of cellular ketone metabolic process. Any process that modulates the chemical reactions and pathways involving any of a class of organic compounds that contain the carbonyl group, CO, and in which the carbonyl group is bonded only to carbon atoms. The general formula for a ketone is RCOR, where R and R are alkyl or aryl groups.
GO:0007051	spindle organization. spindle organisation. spindle organization and biogenesis. spindle stabilization. A process that is carried out at the cellular level which results in the assembly, arrangement of constituent parts, or disassembly of the spindle, the array of microtubules and associated molecules that forms between opposite poles of a eukaryotic cell during DNA segregation and serves to move the duplicated chromosomes apart.
GO:0050913	sensory perception of bitter taste. bitter taste perception. The series of events required to receive a bitter taste stimulus, convert it to a molecular signal, and recognize and characterize the signal. This is a neurological process.
GO:0042311	vasodilation. positive regulation of blood vessel size. vasodilatation. An increase in the internal diameter of blood vessels, especially arterioles or capillaries, due to relaxation of smooth muscle cells that line the vessels, and usually resulting in a decrease in blood pressure.
GO:0042472	inner ear morphogenesis. The process in which the anatomical structures of the inner ear are generated and organized. The inner ear is the structure in vertebrates that contains the organs of balance and hearing. It consists of soft hollow sensory structures (the membranous labyrinth) containing fluid (endolymph) surrounded by fluid (perilymph) and encased in a bony cavity (the bony labyrinth). It consists of two chambers, the sacculus and utriculus, from which arise the cochlea and semicircular canals respectively.
GO:1905952	regulation of lipid localization. regulation of lipid localisation. Any process that modulates the frequency, rate or extent of lipid localization.
GO:0043901	obsolete negative regulation of multi-organism process. OBSOLETE. Any process that stops, prevents, or reduces the frequency, rate or extent of a multi-organism process, a process in which an organism has an effect on another organism of the same or different species.
GO:0072330	monocarboxylic acid biosynthetic process. monocarboxylic acid anabolism. monocarboxylic acid biosynthesis. monocarboxylic acid formation. monocarboxylic acid synthesis. The chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the formation of monocarboxylic acids, any organic acid containing one carboxyl (-COOH) group.
GO:0070059	intrinsic apoptotic signaling pathway in response to endoplasmic reticulum stress. apoptosis in response to endoplasmic reticulum stress. apoptosis in response to ER stress. apoptosis triggered by ER stress. endoplasmic reticulum stress-induced apoptosis. ER stress-induced apoptosis. intrinsic apoptotic signaling pathway induced by endoplasmic reticulum stress. The series of molecular signals in which an intracellular signal is conveyed to trigger the apoptotic death of a cell. The pathway is induced in response to a stimulus indicating endoplasmic reticulum (ER) stress, and ends when the execution phase of apoptosis is triggered. ER stress usually results from the accumulation of unfolded or misfolded proteins in the ER lumen.
GO:0032760	positive regulation of tumor necrosis factor production. activation of tumor necrosis factor production. positive regulation of cachectin secretion. positive regulation of TNF production. positive regulation of TNF secretion. positive regulation of TNF-alpha production. positive regulation of tumor necrosis factor biosynthesis. positive regulation of tumor necrosis factor biosynthetic process. positive regulation of tumor necrosis factor formation. positive regulation of tumor necrosis factor secretion. positive regulation of tumor necrosis factor-alpha production. stimulation of tumor necrosis factor production. up regulation of tumor necrosis factor production. up-regulation of tumor necrosis factor production. upregulation of tumor necrosis factor production. Any process that activates or increases the frequency, rate or extent of tumor necrosis factor production.
GO:0006281	DNA repair. The process of restoring DNA after damage. Genomes are subject to damage by chemical and physical agents in the environment (e.g. UV and ionizing radiations, chemical mutagens, fungal and bacterial toxins, etc.) and by free radicals or alkylating agents endogenously generated in metabolism. DNA is also damaged because of errors during its replication. A variety of different DNA repair pathways have been reported that include direct reversal, base excision repair, nucleotide excision repair, photoreactivation, bypass, double-strand break repair pathway, and mismatch repair pathway.
GO:0009267	cellular response to starvation. Any process that results in a change in state or activity of a cell (in terms of movement, secretion, enzyme production, gene expression, etc.) as a result of deprivation of nourishment.
GO:0006796	phosphate-containing compound metabolic process. phosphate metabolic process. phosphate metabolism. The chemical reactions and pathways involving the phosphate group, the anion or salt of any phosphoric acid.
GO:0007626	locomotory behavior. behavior via locomotion. locomotion in response to stimulus. locomotory behavioral response to stimulus. locomotory behaviour. locomotory behavioural response to stimulus. The specific movement from place to place of an organism in response to external or internal stimuli. Locomotion of a whole organism in a manner dependent upon some combination of that organism's internal state and external conditions.
GO:0070328	triglyceride homeostasis. triacylglycerol homeostasis. Any process involved in the maintenance of an internal steady state of triglyceride within an organism or cell.
GO:0002053	positive regulation of mesenchymal cell proliferation. activation of mesenchymal cell proliferation. stimulation of mesenchymal cell proliferation. up regulation of mesenchymal cell proliferation. up-regulation of mesenchymal cell proliferation. upregulation of mesenchymal cell proliferation. The process of activating or increasing the rate or extent of mesenchymal cell proliferation. Mesenchymal cells are loosely organized embryonic cells.
GO:0071887	leukocyte apoptotic process. leukocyte apoptosis. Any apoptotic process in a leukocyte, an achromatic cell of the myeloid or lymphoid lineages capable of ameboid movement, found in blood or other tissue.
GO:0035640	exploration behavior. exploration behaviour. exploratory behavior. exploratory behaviour. open-field behavior. The specific behavior of an organism in response to a novel environment or stimulus.
GO:0090312	positive regulation of protein deacetylation. positive regulation of protein amino acid deacetylation. Any process that increases the rate, frequency, or extent of protein deacetylation, the removal of an acetyl group from a protein amino acid. An acetyl group is CH3CO-, derived from acetic [ethanoic] acid.
GO:0007200	phospholipase C-activating G protein-coupled receptor signaling pathway. activation of phospholipase C activity by G-protein coupled receptor protein signaling pathway coupled to IP3 second messenger. G protein signaling, coupled to IP3 second messenger (phospholipase C activating). G protein signalling, coupled to IP3 second messenger (phospholipase C activating). G-protein coupled receptor signaling pathway coupled to IP3 second messenger. G-protein signaling, coupled to IP3 second messenger (phospholipase C activating). G-protein signalling, coupled to IP3 second messenger (phospholipase C activating). phospholipase C-activating dopamine receptor signaling pathway. phospholipase C-activating G-protein coupled receptor signaling pathway. PLC-activating GPCR signaling pathway. A G protein-coupled receptor signaling pathway in which the signal is transmitted via the  activation of phospholipase C (PLC) and a subsequent increase in the intracellular concentration of inositol trisphosphate (IP3) and diacylglycerol (DAG).
GO:0045596	negative regulation of cell differentiation. down regulation of cell differentiation. down-regulation of cell differentiation. downregulation of cell differentiation. inhibition of cell differentiation. Any process that stops, prevents, or reduces the frequency, rate or extent of cell differentiation.
GO:1901617	organic hydroxy compound biosynthetic process. organic hydroxy compound anabolism. organic hydroxy compound biosynthesis. organic hydroxy compound formation. organic hydroxy compound synthesis. The chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the formation of organic hydroxy compound.
GO:0032386	regulation of intracellular transport. Any process that modulates the frequency, rate or extent of the directed movement of substances within cells.
GO:0097306	cellular response to alcohol. Any process that results in a change in state or activity of a cell (in terms of movement, secretion, enzyme production, gene expression, etc.) as a result of an alcohol stimulus.
GO:0002823	negative regulation of adaptive immune response based on somatic recombination of immune receptors built from immunoglobulin superfamily domains. Any process that stops, prevents, or reduces the frequency, rate, or extent of an adaptive immune response based on somatic recombination of immune receptors built from immunoglobulin superfamily domains. An example of this process is found in the Gnathostomata.
GO:1900026	positive regulation of substrate adhesion-dependent cell spreading. positive regulation of cell spreading during cell substrate adhesion. positive regulation of substrate adhesion dependent cell spreading. up regulation of cell spreading during cell substrate adhesion. up regulation of substrate adhesion dependent cell spreading. up regulation of substrate adhesion-dependent cell spreading. Any process that activates or increases the frequency, rate or extent of substrate adhesion-dependent cell spreading.
GO:0043484	regulation of RNA splicing. Any process that modulates the frequency, rate or extent of RNA splicing, the process of removing sections of the primary RNA transcript to remove sequences not present in the mature form of the RNA and joining the remaining sections to form the mature form of the RNA.
GO:0070665	positive regulation of leukocyte proliferation. activation of leukocyte proliferation. stimulation of leukocyte proliferation. up regulation of leukocyte proliferation. up-regulation of leukocyte proliferation. upregulation of leukocyte proliferation. Any process that activates or increases the frequency, rate or extent of leukocyte proliferation.
GO:0031000	response to caffeine. Any process that results in a change in state or activity of a cell or an organism (in terms of movement, secretion, enzyme production, gene expression, etc.) as a result of a caffeine stimulus. Caffeine is an alkaloid found in numerous plant species, where it acts as a natural pesticide that paralyzes and kills certain insects feeding upon them.
GO:0010575	positive regulation of vascular endothelial growth factor production. Any process that increases or activates the frequency, rate, or extent of production of vascular endothelial growth factor.
GO:0097237	cellular response to toxic substance. Any process that results in a change in state or activity of a cell (in terms of movement, secretion, enzyme production, gene expression, etc.) as a result of a toxic stimulus.
GO:1901653	cellular response to peptide. Any process that results in a change in state or activity of a cell (in terms of movement, secretion, enzyme production, gene expression, etc.) as a result of a peptide stimulus.
GO:0001505	regulation of neurotransmitter levels. Any process that modulates levels of neurotransmitter.
GO:0071354	cellular response to interleukin-6. cellular response to IL-6. Any process that results in a change in state or activity of a cell (in terms of movement, secretion, enzyme production, gene expression, etc.) as a result of an interleukin-6 stimulus.
GO:0043029	T cell homeostasis. T lymphocyte homeostasis. T-cell homeostasis. T-lymphocyte homeostasis. The process of regulating the proliferation and elimination of T cells such that the total number of T cells within a whole or part of an organism is stable over time in the absence of an outside stimulus.
GO:0043524	negative regulation of neuron apoptotic process. down regulation of neuron apoptosis. down-regulation of neuron apoptosis. downregulation of neuron apoptosis. inhibition of neuron apoptosis. negative regulation of neuron apoptosis. negative regulation of programmed cell death, neurons. neuron survival. Any process that stops, prevents, or reduces the frequency, rate or extent of cell death by apoptotic process in neurons.
GO:0051056	regulation of small GTPase mediated signal transduction. regulation of small GTPase-mediated signal transduction. Any process that modulates the frequency, rate or extent of small GTPase mediated signal transduction.
GO:2001234	negative regulation of apoptotic signaling pathway. negative regulation of apoptotic signalling pathway. Any process that stops, prevents or reduces the frequency, rate or extent of apoptotic signaling pathway.
GO:0040012	regulation of locomotion. Any process that modulates the frequency, rate or extent of locomotion of a cell or organism.
GO:0002312	B cell activation involved in immune response. B cell activation during immune response. B lymphocyte activation during immune response. B-cell activation during immune response. B-lymphocyte activation during immune response. The change in morphology and behavior of a mature or immature B cell during an immune response, resulting from exposure to a mitogen, cytokine, chemokine, cellular ligand, or an antigen for which it is specific.
GO:0035809	regulation of urine volume. regulation of urinary volume. regulation of urine flow. Any process that modulates the amount of urine excreted from the body over a unit of time.
GO:0046627	negative regulation of insulin receptor signaling pathway. down regulation of insulin receptor signaling pathway. down-regulation of insulin receptor signaling pathway. downregulation of insulin receptor signaling pathway. inhibition of insulin receptor signaling pathway. negative regulation of insulin receptor signalling pathway. Any process that stops, prevents, or reduces the frequency, rate or extent of insulin receptor signaling.
GO:0007202	activation of phospholipase C activity. phospholipase C activation. The initiation of the activity of the inactive enzyme phospolipase C as the result of The series of molecular signals generated as a consequence of a G protein-coupled receptor binding to its physiological ligand.
GO:0048599	oocyte development. The process whose specific outcome is the progression of an oocyte over time, from initial commitment of the cell to its specific fate, to the fully functional differentiated cell.
GO:0008033	tRNA processing. tRNA maturation. The process in which a pre-tRNA molecule is converted to a mature tRNA, ready for addition of an aminoacyl group.
GO:0042593	glucose homeostasis. Any process involved in the maintenance of an internal steady state of glucose within an organism or cell.
GO:0007205	protein kinase C-activating G protein-coupled receptor signaling pathway. activation of protein kinase C activity by G-protein coupled receptor protein signaling pathway. activation of protein kinase C activity by G-protein coupled receptor protein signalling pathway. protein kinase C-activating G-protein coupled receptor signaling pathway. The series of molecular signals generated as a consequence of a G protein-coupled receptor binding to its physiological ligand, where the pathway proceeds with activation of protein kinase C (PKC). PKC is activated by second messengers including diacylglycerol (DAG).
GO:0150078	positive regulation of neuroinflammatory response. Any process that activates or increases the frequency, rate or extent of neuroinflammatory response.
GO:0044057	regulation of system process. Any process that modulates the frequency, rate or extent of a system process, a multicellular organismal process carried out by any of the organs or tissues in an organ system.
GO:0042359	vitamin D metabolic process. calciferol metabolic process. calciferol metabolism. cholecalciferol metabolic process. cholecalciferol metabolism. ergocalciferol metabolic process. ergocalciferol metabolism. vitamin D metabolism. The chemical reactions and pathways involving vitamin D, any of a group of related, fat-soluble compounds that are derived from delta-5,7 steroids and play a central role in calcium metabolism. Specific forms of vitamin D include calciferol (ergocalciferol; vitamin D2) and cholecalciferol (calciol; vitamin D3).
GO:0030501	positive regulation of bone mineralization. activation of bone mineralization. stimulation of bone mineralization. up regulation of bone mineralization. up-regulation of bone mineralization. upregulation of bone mineralization. Any process that activates or increases the frequency, rate or extent of bone mineralization.
GO:0045722	positive regulation of gluconeogenesis. activation of gluconeogenesis. stimulation of gluconeogenesis. up regulation of gluconeogenesis. up-regulation of gluconeogenesis. upregulation of gluconeogenesis. Any process that activates or increases the frequency, rate or extent of gluconeogenesis.
GO:1903427	negative regulation of reactive oxygen species biosynthetic process. down regulation of reactive oxygen species anabolism. down regulation of reactive oxygen species biosynthesis. down regulation of reactive oxygen species biosynthetic process. down regulation of reactive oxygen species formation. down regulation of reactive oxygen species generation. down regulation of reactive oxygen species synthesis. down regulation of ROS formation. down regulation of ROS generation. down-regulation of reactive oxygen species anabolism. down-regulation of reactive oxygen species biosynthesis. down-regulation of reactive oxygen species biosynthetic process. down-regulation of reactive oxygen species formation. down-regulation of reactive oxygen species generation. down-regulation of reactive oxygen species synthesis. down-regulation of ROS formation. down-regulation of ROS generation. downregulation of reactive oxygen species anabolism. downregulation of reactive oxygen species biosynthesis. downregulation of reactive oxygen species biosynthetic process. downregulation of reactive oxygen species formation. downregulation of reactive oxygen species generation. downregulation of reactive oxygen species synthesis. downregulation of ROS formation. downregulation of ROS generation. inhibition of reactive oxygen species anabolism. inhibition of reactive oxygen species biosynthesis. inhibition of reactive oxygen species biosynthetic process. inhibition of reactive oxygen species formation. inhibition of reactive oxygen species generation. inhibition of reactive oxygen species synthesis. inhibition of ROS formation. inhibition of ROS generation. negative regulation of reactive oxygen species anabolism. negative regulation of reactive oxygen species biosynthesis. negative regulation of reactive oxygen species formation. negative regulation of reactive oxygen species generation. negative regulation of reactive oxygen species synthesis. negative regulation of ROS formation. negative regulation of ROS generation. prevention of ROS generation. Any process that stops, prevents or reduces the frequency, rate or extent of reactive oxygen species biosynthetic process.
GO:0014743	regulation of muscle hypertrophy. Any process that modulates the frequency, rate or extent of muscle hypertrophy.
GO:0035584	calcium-mediated signaling using intracellular calcium source. calcium signaling using intracellular calcium source. calcium signalling using intracellular calcium source. calcium-mediated signalling using intracellular calcium source. The series of molecular signals in which a cell uses calcium ions released from an intracellular store to convert a signal into a response.
GO:0003407	neural retina development. The progression of the neural retina over time from its initial formation to the mature structure. The neural retina is the part of the retina that contains neurons and photoreceptor cells.
GO:2000279	negative regulation of DNA biosynthetic process. negative regulation of DNA anabolism. negative regulation of DNA biosynthesis. negative regulation of DNA formation. negative regulation of DNA synthesis. Any process that stops, prevents or reduces the frequency, rate or extent of DNA biosynthetic process.
GO:0032922	circadian regulation of gene expression. circadian regulation of protein expression. diurnal variation of gene expression. diurnal variation of protein expression. Any process that modulates the frequency, rate or extent of gene expression such that an expression pattern recurs with a regularity of approximately 24 hours.
GO:0006643	membrane lipid metabolic process. membrane lipid metabolism. The chemical reactions and pathways involving membrane lipids, any lipid found in or associated with a biological membrane.
GO:1905898	positive regulation of response to endoplasmic reticulum stress. activation of cellular response to endoplasmic reticulum stress. activation of ER stress response. activation of response to endoplasmic reticulum stress. activation of response to ER stress. positive regulation of cellular response to endoplasmic reticulum stress. positive regulation of ER stress response. positive regulation of response to ER stress. up regulation of cellular response to endoplasmic reticulum stress. up regulation of ER stress response. up regulation of response to endoplasmic reticulum stress. up regulation of response to ER stress. up-regulation of cellular response to endoplasmic reticulum stress. up-regulation of ER stress response. up-regulation of response to endoplasmic reticulum stress. up-regulation of response to ER stress. upregulation of cellular response to endoplasmic reticulum stress. upregulation of ER stress response. upregulation of response to endoplasmic reticulum stress. upregulation of response to ER stress. Any process that activates or increases the frequency, rate or extent of response to endoplasmic reticulum stress.
GO:0042036	negative regulation of cytokine production. down regulation of cytokine biosynthetic process. down regulation of cytokine production. down-regulation of cytokine biosynthetic process. down-regulation of cytokine production. downregulation of cytokine biosynthetic process. downregulation of cytokine production. inhibition of cytokine biosynthetic process. inhibition of cytokine production. negative regulation of cytokine anabolism. negative regulation of cytokine biosynthesis. negative regulation of cytokine biosynthetic process. negative regulation of cytokine formation. negative regulation of cytokine secretion. negative regulation of cytokine synthesis. Any process that stops, prevents, or reduces the rate of production of a cytokine.
GO:2000463	positive regulation of excitatory postsynaptic potential. positive regulation of EPSP. positive regulation of excitatory post-synaptic membrane potential. Any process that enhances the establishment or increases the extent of the excitatory postsynaptic potential (EPSP) which is a temporary increase in postsynaptic potential due to the flow of positively charged ions into the postsynaptic cell. The flow of ions that causes an EPSP is an excitatory postsynaptic current (EPSC) and makes it easier for the neuron to fire an action potential.
GO:0008064	regulation of actin polymerization or depolymerization. Any process that modulates the frequency, rate or extent of the assembly or disassembly of actin filaments by the addition or removal of actin monomers from a filament.
GO:0009119	ribonucleoside metabolic process. ribonucleoside metabolism. The chemical reactions and pathways involving any ribonucleoside, a nucleoside in which purine or pyrimidine base is linked to a ribose (beta-D-ribofuranose) molecule.
GO:0010874	regulation of cholesterol efflux. Any process that modulates the frequency, rate or extent of cholesterol efflux. Cholesterol efflux is the directed movement of cholesterol, cholest-5-en-3-beta-ol, out of a cell or organelle.
GO:0043044	chromatin remodeling. ATP-dependent chromatin remodeling. ATP-dependent chromatin remodelling. chromatin modeling. chromatin modelling. chromatin remodelling. A dynamic process of chromatin reorganization resulting in changes to chromatin structure. These changes allow DNA metabolic processes such as transcriptional regulation, DNA recombination, DNA repair, and DNA replication.
GO:0002250	adaptive immune response. acquired immune response. immune memory response. An immune response mediated by cells expressing specific receptors for antigen produced through a somatic diversification process, and allowing for an enhanced secondary response to subsequent exposures to the same antigen (immunological memory).
GO:0098662	inorganic cation transmembrane transport. divalent inorganic cation transport. inorganic cation membrane transport. monovalent inorganic cation transport. transmembrane inorganic cation transport. A process in which an inorganic cation is transported from one side of a membrane to the other by means of some agent such as a transporter or pore.
GO:0006521	regulation of cellular amino acid metabolic process. regulation of amino acid metabolism. Any process that modulates the frequency, rate or extent of the chemical reactions and pathways involving amino acids.
GO:0071345	cellular response to cytokine stimulus. Any process that results in a change in state or activity of a cell (in terms of movement, secretion, enzyme production, gene expression, etc.) as a result of a cytokine stimulus.
GO:0044060	regulation of endocrine process. regulation of endocrine system process. Any process that modulates the frequency, rate or extent of an endocrine process, a process involving the secretion of or response to endocrine hormones. An endocrine hormone is a hormone released into the circulatory system.
GO:1903429	regulation of cell maturation. regulation of functional differentiation. Any process that modulates the frequency, rate or extent of cell maturation.
GO:0002532	production of molecular mediator involved in inflammatory response. production of cellular mediator of acute inflammation. production of molecular mediator involved in acute inflammatory response. The synthesis or release of any molecular mediator of the inflammatory response following an inflammatory stimulus, resulting in an increase in its intracellular or extracellular levels.
GO:0050715	positive regulation of cytokine production. activation of cytokine production. positive regulation of cytokine biosynthetic process. positive regulation of cytokine secretion. stimulation of cytokine production. up regulation of cytokine production. up-regulation of cytokine production. upregulation of cytokine production. Any process that activates or increases the frequency, rate or extent of production of a cytokine.
GO:0007010	cytoskeleton organization. cytoskeletal organization and biogenesis. cytoskeletal regulator activity. cytoskeleton organisation. cytoskeleton organization and biogenesis. A process that is carried out at the cellular level which results in the assembly, arrangement of constituent parts, or disassembly of cytoskeletal structures.
GO:0071417	cellular response to organonitrogen compound. cellular response to organic nitrogen. Any process that results in a change in state or activity of a cell (in terms of movement, secretion, enzyme production, gene expression, etc.) as a result of an organonitrogen stimulus. An organonitrogen compound is formally a compound containing at least one carbon-nitrogen bond.
GO:0043312	neutrophil degranulation. heterophil degranulation. neutrophil granule exocytosis. The regulated exocytosis of secretory granules containing preformed mediators such as proteases, lipases, and inflammatory mediators by a neutrophil.
GO:0007565	female pregnancy. carrying of young. gestation. The set of physiological processes that allow an embryo or foetus to develop within the body of a female animal. It covers the time from fertilization of a female ovum by a male spermatozoon until birth.
GO:0010927	cellular component assembly involved in morphogenesis. The cellular component assembly that is part of the initial shaping of the component during its developmental progression.
GO:0006733	obsolete oxidoreduction coenzyme metabolic process. oxidoreduction coenzyme metabolism. OBSOLETE. The chemical reactions and pathways involving coenzymes that are required, in addition to an enzyme and a substrate, for an oxidoreductase reaction to proceed.
GO:0097242	amyloid-beta clearance. beta-amyloid clearance. The process in which amyloid-beta is removed from extracellular brain regions by mechanisms involving cell surface receptors.
GO:0007595	lactation. milk secretion. The regulated release of milk from the mammary glands and the period of time that a mother lactates to feed her young.
GO:0006109	regulation of carbohydrate metabolic process. regulation of carbohydrate metabolism. Any process that modulates the frequency, rate or extent of the chemical reactions and pathways involving carbohydrates.
GO:0043588	skin development. animal skin development. The process whose specific outcome is the progression of the skin over time, from its formation to the mature structure. The skin is the external membranous integument of an animal. In vertebrates the skin generally consists of two layers, an outer nonsensitive and nonvascular epidermis (cuticle or skarfskin) composed of cells which are constantly growing and multiplying in the deeper, and being thrown off in the superficial layers, as well as an inner vascular dermis (cutis, corium or true skin) composed mostly of connective tissue.
GO:0071897	DNA biosynthetic process. DNA anabolism. DNA biosynthesis. DNA formation. DNA synthesis. The biosynthetic process resulting in the formation of DNA.
GO:0010171	body morphogenesis. The process in which the anatomical structures of the soma are generated and organized.
GO:0016570	histone modification. The covalent alteration of one or more amino acid residues within a histone protein.
GO:0006006	glucose metabolic process. cellular glucose metabolic process. glucose metabolism. The chemical reactions and pathways involving glucose, the aldohexose gluco-hexose. D-glucose is dextrorotatory and is sometimes known as dextrose; it is an important source of energy for living organisms and is found free as well as combined in homo- and hetero-oligosaccharides and polysaccharides.
GO:0090068	positive regulation of cell cycle process. Any process that increases the rate, frequency or extent of a cellular process that is involved in the progression of biochemical and morphological phases and events that occur in a cell during successive cell replication or nuclear replication events.
GO:0040008	regulation of growth. Any process that modulates the frequency, rate or extent of the growth of all or part of an organism so that it occurs at its proper speed, either globally or in a specific part of the organism's development.
GO:0045124	regulation of bone resorption. Any process that modulates the frequency, rate or extent of bone tissue loss (resorption).
GO:0055123	digestive system development. The process whose specific outcome is the progression of the digestive system over time, from its formation to the mature structure. The digestive system is the entire structure in which digestion takes place. Digestion is all of the physical, chemical, and biochemical processes carried out by multicellular organisms to break down ingested nutrients into components that may be easily absorbed and directed into metabolism.
GO:0010666	positive regulation of cardiac muscle cell apoptotic process. positive regulation of cardiac muscle cell apoptosis. Any process that increases the rate or extent of cardiac cell apoptotic process, a form of programmed cell death induced by external or internal signals that trigger the activity of proteolytic caspases whose actions dismantle a cardiac muscle cell and result in its death.
GO:0008211	glucocorticoid metabolic process. glucocorticoid metabolism. glucocorticosteroid metabolic process. glucocorticosteroid metabolism. The chemical reactions and pathways involving glucocorticoids, hormonal C21 corticosteroids synthesized from cholesterol. Glucocorticoids act primarily on carbohydrate and protein metabolism, and have anti-inflammatory effects.
GO:0033365	protein localization to organelle. protein localisation to organelle. protein localization in organelle. A process in which a protein is transported to, or maintained in, a location within an organelle.
GO:0050850	positive regulation of calcium-mediated signaling. activation of calcium-mediated signaling. positive regulation of calcium-mediated signalling. stimulation of calcium-mediated signaling. up regulation of calcium-mediated signaling. up-regulation of calcium-mediated signaling. upregulation of calcium-mediated signaling. Any process that activates or increases the frequency, rate or extent of calcium-mediated signaling.
GO:1903532	positive regulation of secretion by cell. activation of cellular secretion. activation of secretion by cell. positive regulation of cellular secretion. up regulation of cellular secretion. up regulation of secretion by cell. up-regulation of cellular secretion. up-regulation of secretion by cell. upregulation of cellular secretion. upregulation of secretion by cell. Any process that activates or increases the frequency, rate or extent of secretion by cell.
GO:0007276	gamete generation. gametogenesis. The generation and maintenance of gametes in a multicellular organism. A gamete is a haploid reproductive cell.
GO:0014912	negative regulation of smooth muscle cell migration. Any process that stops, prevents, or reduces the frequency, rate or extent of smooth muscle cell migration.
GO:0046513	ceramide biosynthetic process. ceramide anabolism. ceramide biosynthesis. ceramide formation. ceramide synthesis. The chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the formation of ceramides, any N-acylated sphingoid.
GO:0090092	regulation of transmembrane receptor protein serine/threonine kinase signaling pathway. regulation of transmembrane receptor protein serine/threonine kinase signalling pathway. Any process that modulates the rate, frequency, or extent of the series of molecular signals generated as a consequence of a transmembrane receptor serine/threonine kinase binding to its physiological ligand.
GO:0006323	chromosome organization. chromosome organisation. chromosome organization and biogenesis. DNA condensation. DNA packaging. maintenance of genome integrity. nuclear genome maintenance. A process that is carried out at the cellular level that results in the assembly, arrangement of constituent parts, or disassembly of chromosomes, structures composed of a very long molecule of DNA and associated proteins that carries hereditary information. This term covers covalent modifications at the molecular level as well as spatial relationships among the major components of a chromosome.
GO:0001944	vasculature development. vascular system development. The process whose specific outcome is the progression of the vasculature over time, from its formation to the mature structure. The vasculature is an interconnected tubular multi-tissue structure that contains fluid that is actively transported around the organism.
GO:2000242	negative regulation of reproductive process. Any process that stops, prevents, or reduces the frequency, rate or extent of reproductive process.
GO:0010880	regulation of release of sequestered calcium ion into cytosol by sarcoplasmic reticulum. Any process that modulates the rate, frequency or extent of release of sequestered calcium ion into cytosol by the sarcoplasmic reticulum, the process in which the release of sequestered calcium ion by sarcoplasmic reticulum into cytosol occurs via calcium release channels.
GO:0001658	branching involved in ureteric bud morphogenesis. ureteric bud branching. The process in which the branching structure of the ureteric bud is generated and organized. The ureteric bud is an epithelial tube that grows out from the metanephric duct. The bud elongates and branches to give rise to the ureter and kidney collecting tubules.
GO:0009126	purine nucleoside monophosphate metabolic process. purine nucleoside monophosphate metabolism. The chemical reactions and pathways involving purine nucleoside monophosphate, a compound consisting of a purine base linked to a ribose or deoxyribose sugar esterified with phosphate on the sugar.
GO:0061351	neural precursor cell proliferation. The multiplication or reproduction of neural precursor cells, resulting in the expansion of a cell population. A neural precursor cell is either a nervous system stem cell or a nervous system progenitor cell.
GO:0030890	positive regulation of B cell proliferation. activation of B cell proliferation. positive regulation of B lymphocyte proliferation. positive regulation of B-cell proliferation. positive regulation of B-lymphocyte proliferation. stimulation of B cell proliferation. up regulation of B cell proliferation. up-regulation of B cell proliferation. upregulation of B cell proliferation. Any process that activates or increases the rate or extent of B cell proliferation.
GO:0090316	positive regulation of intracellular protein transport. Any process that activates or increases the frequency, rate or extent of the directed movement of proteins within cells.
GO:0002576	platelet degranulation. platelet exocytosis. The regulated exocytosis of secretory granules containing preformed mediators such as histamine and serotonin by a platelet.
GO:1900371	regulation of purine nucleotide biosynthetic process. regulation of purine nucleotide anabolism. regulation of purine nucleotide biosynthesis. regulation of purine nucleotide formation. regulation of purine nucleotide synthesis. Any process that modulates the frequency, rate or extent of purine nucleotide biosynthetic processes.
GO:0002675	positive regulation of acute inflammatory response. activation of acute inflammatory response. stimulation of acute inflammatory response. up regulation of acute inflammatory response. up-regulation of acute inflammatory response. upregulation of acute inflammatory response. Any process that activates or increases the frequency, rate, or extent of an acute inflammatory response.
GO:0030162	regulation of proteolysis. regulation of peptidolysis. Any process that modulates the frequency, rate or extent of the hydrolysis of a peptide bond or bonds within a protein.
GO:0043547	positive regulation of GTPase activity. activation of GTPase activity. positive regulation of ARF GTPase activity. positive regulation of Cdc42 GTPase activity. positive regulation of Rab GTPase activity. positive regulation of Rac GTPase activity. positive regulation of Ral GTPase activity. positive regulation of Ran GTPase activity. positive regulation of Rap GTPase activity. positive regulation of Ras GTPase activity. positive regulation of Rho GTPase activity. stimulation of ARF GTPase activity. stimulation of Cdc42 GTPase activity. stimulation of GTPase activity. stimulation of Rab GTPase activity. stimulation of Rac GTPase activity. stimulation of Ral GTPase activity. stimulation of Ran GTPase activity. stimulation of Rap GTPase activity. stimulation of Ras GTPase activity. stimulation of Rho GTPase activity. up regulation of ARF GTPase activity. up regulation of Cdc42 GTPase activity. up regulation of GTPase activity. up regulation of Rab GTPase activity. up regulation of Rac GTPase activity. up regulation of Ral GTPase activity. up regulation of Ran GTPase activity. up regulation of Rap GTPase activity. up regulation of Ras GTPase activity. up regulation of Rho GTPase activity. up-regulation of ARF GTPase activity. up-regulation of Cdc42 GTPase activity. up-regulation of GTPase activity. up-regulation of Rab GTPase activity. up-regulation of Rac GTPase activity. up-regulation of Ral GTPase activity. up-regulation of Ran GTPase activity. up-regulation of Rap GTPase activity. up-regulation of Ras GTPase activity. up-regulation of Rho GTPase activity. upregulation of ARF GTPase activity. upregulation of Cdc42 GTPase activity. upregulation of GTPase activity. upregulation of Rab GTPase activity. upregulation of Rac GTPase activity. upregulation of Ral GTPase activity. upregulation of Ran GTPase activity. upregulation of Rap GTPase activity. upregulation of Ras GTPase activity. upregulation of Rho GTPase activity. Any process that activates or increases the activity of a GTPase.
GO:0046209	nitric oxide metabolic process. nitric oxide metabolism. The chemical reactions and pathways involving nitric oxide, nitrogen monoxide (NO), a colorless gas only slightly soluble in water.
GO:0043032	positive regulation of macrophage activation. activation of macrophage activation. positive regulation of macrophage polarization. stimulation of macrophage activation. up regulation of macrophage activation. up-regulation of macrophage activation. upregulation of macrophage activation. Any process that stimulates, induces or increases the rate of macrophage activation.
GO:0010632	regulation of epithelial cell migration. Any process that modulates the frequency, rate or extent of epithelial cell migration.
GO:0002456	T cell mediated immunity. cell-mediated immunity. cellular immune response. T lymphocyte mediated immunity. T-cell mediated immunity. T-lymphocyte mediated immunity. Any process involved in the carrying out of an immune response by a T cell.
GO:0032692	negative regulation of interleukin-1 production. down regulation of interleukin-1 production. down-regulation of interleukin-1 production. downregulation of interleukin-1 production. inhibition of interleukin-1 production. negative regulation of IL-1 production. negative regulation of interleukin-1 biosynthetic process. negative regulation of interleukin-1 secretion. Any process that stops, prevents, or reduces the frequency, rate, or extent of interleukin-1 production.
GO:0060669	embryonic placenta morphogenesis. The process in which the embryonic placenta is generated and organized.
GO:0030217	T cell differentiation. T cell development. T lymphocyte differentiation. T-cell differentiation. T-lymphocyte differentiation. The process in which a precursor cell type acquires characteristics of a more mature T-cell. A T cell is a type of lymphocyte whose definin characteristic is the expression of a T cell receptor complex.
GO:0016311	dephosphorylation. The process of removing one or more phosphoric (ester or anhydride) residues from a molecule.
GO:0051345	positive regulation of hydrolase activity. activation of hydrolase activity. hydrolase activator. stimulation of hydrolase activity. up regulation of hydrolase activity. up-regulation of hydrolase activity. upregulation of hydrolase activity. Any process that activates or increases the frequency, rate or extent of hydrolase activity, the catalysis of the hydrolysis of various bonds.
GO:0032656	regulation of interleukin-13 production. regulation of IL-13 production. regulation of interleukin-13 biosynthetic process. regulation of interleukin-13 secretion. Any process that modulates the frequency, rate, or extent of interleukin-13 production.
GO:0032689	negative regulation of interferon-gamma production. down regulation of interferon-gamma production. down-regulation of interferon-gamma production. downregulation of interferon-gamma production. inhibition of interferon-gamma production. negative regulation of interferon-gamma biosynthetic process. negative regulation of interferon-gamma secretion. negative regulation of type II interferon production. Any process that stops, prevents, or reduces the frequency, rate, or extent of interferon-gamma production. Interferon-gamma is also known as type II interferon.
GO:0019372	lipoxygenase pathway. The chemical reactions and pathways by which an unsaturated fatty acid (such as arachidonic acid or linolenic acid) is converted to other compounds, and in which the first step is hydroperoxide formation catalyzed by lipoxygenase.
GO:0051052	regulation of DNA metabolic process. regulation of DNA metabolism. Any process that modulates the frequency, rate or extent of the chemical reactions and pathways involving DNA.
GO:0031669	cellular response to nutrient levels. Any process that results in a change in state or activity of a cell (in terms of movement, secretion, enzyme production, gene expression, etc.) as a result of a stimulus reflecting the presence, absence, or concentration of nutrients.
GO:0050922	negative regulation of chemotaxis. down regulation of chemotaxis. down-regulation of chemotaxis. downregulation of chemotaxis. inhibition of chemotaxis. Any process that stops, prevents, or reduces the frequency, rate or extent of the directed movement of a motile cell or organism in response to a specific chemical concentration gradient.
GO:0002029	desensitization of G protein-coupled receptor signaling pathway. desensitisation of G-protein coupled receptor protein signalling pathway. desensitization of G-protein coupled receptor protein signaling pathway. The process that stops, prevents, or reduces the frequency, rate or extent of G protein-coupled receptor signaling pathway after prolonged stimulation with an agonist of the pathway.
GO:0009065	glutamine family amino acid catabolic process. glutamine family amino acid breakdown. glutamine family amino acid catabolism. glutamine family amino acid degradation. The chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the breakdown of amino acids of the glutamine family, comprising arginine, glutamate, glutamine and proline.
GO:0086002	cardiac muscle cell action potential involved in contraction. An action potential that occurs in a cardiac muscle cell and is involved in its contraction.
GO:2000379	positive regulation of reactive oxygen species metabolic process. positive regulation of reactive oxygen species metabolism. positive regulation of ROS metabolic process. Any process that activates or increases the frequency, rate or extent of reactive oxygen species metabolic process.
GO:0006144	purine nucleobase metabolic process. purine base metabolic process. purine base metabolism. purine metabolic process. purine metabolism. The chemical reactions and pathways involving purine nucleobases, one of the two classes of nitrogen-containing ring compounds found in DNA and RNA, which include adenine and guanine.
GO:0034260	negative regulation of GTPase activity. down regulation of GTPase activity. down regulation of Rab GTPase activity. down regulation of Ras GTPase activity. down regulation of regulation of Ran GTPase activity. down regulation of Rho GTPase activity. down-regulation of GTPase activity. down-regulation of Rab GTPase activity. down-regulation of Ras GTPase activity. down-regulation of regulation of Ran GTPase activity. down-regulation of Rho GTPase activity. downregulation of GTPase activity. downregulation of Rab GTPase activity. downregulation of Ras GTPase activity. downregulation of regulation of Ran GTPase activity. downregulation of Rho GTPase activity. inhibition of GTPase activity. inhibition of Rab GTPase activity. inhibition of Ras GTPase activity. inhibition of regulation of Ran GTPase activity. inhibition of Rho GTPase activity. negative regulation of guanosinetriphosphatase activity. negative regulation of Rab GTPase activity. negative regulation of Ran GTPase activity. negative regulation of Ras GTPase activity. negative regulation of Rho GTPase activity. Any process that stops or reduces the rate of GTP hydrolysis by a GTPase.
GO:0010506	regulation of autophagy. Any process that modulates the frequency, rate or extent of autophagy. Autophagy is the process in which cells digest parts of their own cytoplasm.
GO:0043244	regulation of protein-containing complex disassembly. regulation of protein complex disassembly. Any process that modulates the frequency, rate or extent of protein complex disassembly, the disaggregation of a protein complex into its constituent components.
GO:0048646	anatomical structure formation involved in morphogenesis. formation of an anatomical structure involved in morphogenesis. The developmental process pertaining to the initial formation of an anatomical structure from unspecified parts. This process begins with the specific processes that contribute to the appearance of the discrete structure and ends when the structural rudiment is recognizable. An anatomical structure is any biological entity that occupies space and is distinguished from its surroundings. Anatomical structures can be macroscopic such as a carpel, or microscopic such as an acrosome.
GO:0030182	neuron differentiation. The process in which a relatively unspecialized cell acquires specialized features of a neuron.
GO:0072359	circulatory system development. cardiovascular system development. The process whose specific outcome is the progression of the circulatory system over time, from its formation to the mature structure. The circulatory system is the organ system that passes nutrients (such as amino acids and electrolytes), gases, hormones, blood cells, etc. to and from cells in the body to help fight diseases and help stabilize body temperature and pH to maintain homeostasis.
GO:0060113	inner ear receptor cell differentiation. inner ear hair cell differentiation. The process in which relatively unspecialized cells, acquire specialized structural and/or functional features of inner ear receptor cells. Inner ear receptor cells are mechanorecptors found in the inner ear responsible for transducing signals involved in balance and sensory perception of sound.
GO:0007188	adenylate cyclase-modulating G protein-coupled receptor signaling pathway. adenylate cyclase-modulating GPCR signaling pathway. G protein signaling, coupled to cAMP nucleotide second messenger. G protein signaling, coupled to cyclic AMP nucleotide second messenger. G protein signalling, coupled to cAMP nucleotide second messenger. G protein signalling, coupled to cyclic AMP nucleotide second messenger. G-protein signaling, coupled to cAMP nucleotide second messenger. G-protein signaling, coupled to cyclic AMP nucleotide second messenger. G-protein signalling, coupled to cAMP nucleotide second messenger. G-protein signalling, coupled to cyclic AMP nucleotide second messenger. GPCR signaling pathway via cAMP second messenger. GPCR signaling pathway via modulation of adenylate cyclase activity. A G protein-coupled receptor signaling pathway in which the signal is transmitted via the activation or inhibition of adenylyl cyclase activity and a subsequent change in the intracellular concentration of cyclic AMP (cAMP).
GO:0042417	dopamine metabolic process. dopamine metabolism. The chemical reactions and pathways involving dopamine, a catecholamine neurotransmitter and a metabolic precursor of noradrenaline and adrenaline.
GO:0072595	maintenance of protein localization in organelle. maintenance of protein localisation to organelle. maintenance of protein localization to organelle. Any process in which a protein is maintained in a specific location a specific location on or in an organelle, and is prevented from moving elsewhere. Encompasses establishment of localization in the membrane or lumen of a membrane-bounded organelle.
GO:0006366	transcription by RNA polymerase II. gene-specific transcription from RNA polymerase II promoter. general transcription from RNA polymerase II promoter. RNA polymerase II transcription factor activity. specific transcription from RNA polymerase II promoter. transcription from Pol II promoter. transcription from RNA polymerase II promoter. The synthesis of RNA from a DNA template by RNA polymerase II (RNAP II), originating at an RNA polymerase II promoter. Includes transcription of messenger RNA (mRNA) and certain small nuclear RNAs (snRNAs).
GO:1901214	regulation of neuron death. regulation of neuron cell death. regulation of neuronal cell death. Any process that modulates the frequency, rate or extent of neuron death.
GO:0045408	regulation of interleukin-6 production. regulation of IL-6 production. regulation of interleukin-6 biosynthetic process. Any process that modulates the frequency, rate, or extent of interleukin-6 production.
GO:0006457	protein folding. alpha-tubulin folding. beta-tubulin folding. chaperone activity. chaperonin ATPase activity. chaperonin-mediated tubulin folding. co-chaperone activity. co-chaperonin activity. glycoprotein-specific chaperone activity. non-chaperonin molecular chaperone ATPase activity. protein complex assembly, multichaperone pathway. The process of assisting in the covalent and noncovalent assembly of single chain polypeptides or multisubunit complexes into the correct tertiary structure.
GO:0034645	cellular macromolecule biosynthetic process. cellular biopolymer biosynthetic process. cellular macromolecule anabolism. cellular macromolecule biosynthesis. cellular macromolecule formation. cellular macromolecule synthesis. The chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the formation of a macromolecule, any molecule of high relative molecular mass, the structure of which essentially comprises the multiple repetition of units derived, actually or conceptually, from molecules of low relative molecular mass, carried out by individual cells.
GO:0010614	negative regulation of cardiac muscle hypertrophy. Any process that decreases the rate, frequency or extent of the enlargement or overgrowth of all or part of the heart due to an increase in size (not length) of individual cardiac muscle fibers, without cell division.
GO:0046326	positive regulation of glucose import. activation of glucose import. positive regulation of glucose uptake. stimulation of glucose import. up regulation of glucose import. up-regulation of glucose import. upregulation of glucose import. Any process that activates or increases the frequency, rate or extent of the import of the hexose monosaccharide glucose into a cell or organelle.
GO:0007588	excretion. The elimination by an organism of the waste products that arise as a result of metabolic activity. These products include water, carbon dioxide (CO2), and nitrogenous compounds.
GO:0009913	epidermal cell differentiation. hypodermal cell differentiation. The process in which a relatively unspecialized cell acquires specialized features of an epidermal cell, any of the cells making up the epidermis.
GO:0003156	regulation of animal organ formation. Any process that modulates the rate, frequency or extent of animal organ formation. Organ formation is the process pertaining to the initial formation of an organ from unspecified parts. The process begins with the specific processes that contribute to the appearance of the discrete structure, such as inductive events, and ends when the structural rudiment of the organ is recognizable, such as a condensation of mesenchymal cells into the organ rudiment.
GO:0048013	ephrin receptor signaling pathway. Eph receptor signaling pathway. Eph receptor signalling pathway. The series of molecular signals initiated by ephrin binding to its receptor, and ending with the regulation of a downstream cellular process, e.g. transcription.
GO:0035019	somatic stem cell population maintenance. Any process by which an organism retains a population of somatic stem cells, undifferentiated cells in the embryo or adult which can undergo unlimited division and give rise to cell types of the body other than those of the germ-line.
GO:0008104	protein localization. asymmetric protein localisation. asymmetric protein localization. cellular protein localisation. cellular protein localization. channel localizer activity. establishment and maintenance of asymmetric protein localization. establishment and maintenance of protein localization. protein localisation. Any process in which a protein is transported to, or maintained in, a specific location.
GO:0001676	long-chain fatty acid metabolic process. long-chain fatty acid metabolism. The chemical reactions and pathways involving long-chain fatty acids, A long-chain fatty acid is a fatty acid with a chain length between C13 and C22.
GO:0090304	nucleic acid metabolic process. Any cellular metabolic process involving nucleic acids.
GO:0043408	regulation of MAPK cascade. regulation of MAP kinase cascade. regulation of MAP kinase kinase kinase cascade. regulation of MAPKKK cascade. regulation of mitogen activated protein kinase cascade. regulation of mitogen activated protein kinase kinase kinase cascade. regulation of mitogen-activated protein kinase cascade. regulation of mitogen-activated protein kinase kinase kinase cascade. Any process that modulates the frequency, rate or extent of signal transduction mediated by the MAP kinase (MAPK) cascade.
GO:0090501	RNA phosphodiester bond hydrolysis. The RNA metabolic process in which the phosphodiester bonds between ribonucleotides are cleaved by hydrolysis.
GO:0080135	regulation of cellular response to stress. Any process that modulates the frequency, rate or extent of a cellular response to stress. Cellular response to stress is a change in state or activity of a cell (in terms of movement, secretion, enzyme production, gene expression, etc.) as a result of a stimulus indicating the organism is under stress. The stress is usually, but not necessarily, exogenous (e.g. temperature, humidity, ionizing radiation).
GO:0071702	organic substance transport. The directed movement of organic substances into, out of or within a cell, or between cells, or within a multicellular organism by means of some agent such as a transporter or pore. An organic substance is a molecular entity that contains carbon.
GO:0006953	acute-phase response. An acute inflammatory response that involves non-antibody proteins whose concentrations in the plasma increase in response to infection or injury of homeothermic animals.
GO:0010951	negative regulation of endopeptidase activity. Any process that decreases the frequency, rate or extent of endopeptidase activity, the endohydrolysis of peptide bonds within proteins.
GO:0031331	positive regulation of cellular catabolic process. activation of cellular catabolic process. positive regulation of cellular breakdown. positive regulation of cellular catabolism. positive regulation of cellular degradation. stimulation of cellular catabolic process. up regulation of cellular catabolic process. up-regulation of cellular catabolic process. upregulation of cellular catabolic process. Any process that activates or increases the frequency, rate or extent of the chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the breakdown of substances, carried out by individual cells.
GO:0034330	cell junction organization. cell junction assembly and maintenance. cell junction biogenesis. cell junction organisation. A process that is carried out at the cellular level which results in the assembly, arrangement of constituent parts, or disassembly of a cell junction. A cell junction is a specialized region of connection between two cells or between a cell and the extracellular matrix.
GO:1903409	reactive oxygen species biosynthetic process. reactive oxygen species anabolism. reactive oxygen species biosynthesis. reactive oxygen species formation. reactive oxygen species generation. reactive oxygen species synthesis. ROS formation. ROS generation. The chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the formation of reactive oxygen species, any molecules or ions formed by the incomplete one-electron reduction of oxygen.
GO:0006721	terpenoid metabolic process. terpenoid metabolism. The chemical reactions and pathways involving terpenoids, any member of a class of compounds characterized by an isoprenoid chemical structure and including derivatives with various functional groups.
GO:0042771	intrinsic apoptotic signaling pathway in response to DNA damage by p53 class mediator. DNA damage response, signal transduction by p53 class mediator resulting in induction of apoptosis. The series of molecular signals in which an intracellular signal is conveyed to trigger the apoptotic death of a cell. The pathway is induced by the cell cycle regulator phosphoprotein p53, or an equivalent protein, in response to the detection of DNA damage, and ends when the execution phase of apoptosis is triggered.
GO:0044247	cellular polysaccharide catabolic process. cellular polysaccharide breakdown. cellular polysaccharide catabolism. cellular polysaccharide degradation. The chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the breakdown of polysaccharides, polymers of many (typically more than 10) monosaccharide residues linked glycosidically, as carried out by individual cells.
GO:0051726	regulation of cell cycle. arrest of mitotic cell cycle progression. cell cycle arrest. cell cycle modulation. cell cycle regulation. cell cycle regulator. control of cell cycle progression. mitotic cell cycle arrest. modulation of cell cycle progression. negative regulation of cell cycle arrest. positive regulation of cell cycle arrest. regulation of cell cycle arrest. regulation of cell cycle progression. regulation of progression through cell cycle. tumor suppressor. Any process that modulates the rate or extent of progression through the cell cycle.
GO:0007186	G protein-coupled receptor signaling pathway. dimeric G-protein coupled receptor signaling pathway. dimeric G-protein coupled receptor signalling pathway. G protein coupled receptor protein signaling pathway. G protein coupled receptor protein signalling pathway. G-protein coupled receptor protein signal transduction. G-protein coupled receptor protein signaling pathway. G-protein coupled receptor signaling pathway via GPCR dimer. G-protein coupled receptor signalling pathway. G-protein-coupled receptor protein signalling pathway. GPCR signaling pathway. GPCR signalling pathway. The series of molecular signals initiated by a ligand binding to its receptor, in which the  activated receptor promotes the exchange of GDP for GTP on the alpha-subunit of an associated heterotrimeric G-protein complex. The GTP-bound activated alpha-G-protein then dissociates from the beta- and gamma-subunits to further transmit the signal within the cell. The pathway begins with receptor-ligand interaction, and ends with regulation of a downstream cellular process.  The pathway can start from the plasma membrane, Golgi or nuclear membrane.
GO:0010884	positive regulation of lipid storage. positive regulation of lipid sequestration. Any process that increases the rate, frequency or extent of lipid storage. Lipid storage is the accumulation and maintenance in cells or tissues of lipids, compounds soluble in organic solvents but insoluble or sparingly soluble in aqueous solvents. Lipid reserves can be accumulated during early developmental stages for mobilization and utilization at later stages of development.
GO:0051289	protein homotetramerization. protein homotetramer assembly. protein homotetramer biosynthesis. protein homotetramer biosynthetic process. protein homotetramer formation. The formation of a protein homotetramer, a macromolecular structure consisting of four noncovalently associated identical subunits.
GO:0001975	response to amphetamine. Any process that results in a change in state or activity of a cell or an organism (in terms of movement, secretion, enzyme production, gene expression, etc.) as a result of an amphetamine stimulus. Amphetamines consist of a group of compounds related to alpha-methylphenethylamine.
GO:0072080	nephron tubule development. The progression of a nephron tubule over time, from its initial formation to the mature structure. A nephron tubule is an epithelial tube that is part of the nephron, the functional part of the kidney.
GO:1903779	regulation of cardiac conduction. Any process that modulates the frequency, rate or extent of cardiac conduction.
GO:0097066	response to thyroid hormone. response to thyroid hormone stimulus. A change in state or activity of a cell or an organism (in terms of movement, secretion, enzyme production, gene expression, etc.) as a result of a thyroid hormone stimulus.
GO:0043967	histone H4 acetylation. The modification of histone H4 by the addition of an acetyl group.
GO:0035306	positive regulation of dephosphorylation. activation of dephosphorylation. stimulation of dephosphorylation. up regulation of dephosphorylation. up-regulation of dephosphorylation. upregulation of dephosphorylation. Any process that activates or increases the frequency, rate or extent of removal of phosphate groups from a molecule.
GO:0001938	positive regulation of endothelial cell proliferation. activation of endothelial cell proliferation. stimulation of endothelial cell proliferation. up regulation of endothelial cell proliferation. up-regulation of endothelial cell proliferation. upregulation of endothelial cell proliferation. Any process that activates or increases the rate or extent of endothelial cell proliferation.
GO:0009214	cyclic nucleotide catabolic process. cyclic nucleotide breakdown. cyclic nucleotide catabolism. cyclic nucleotide degradation. The chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the breakdown of a cyclic nucleotide, a nucleotide in which the phosphate group is in diester linkage to two positions on the sugar residue.
GO:0010921	regulation of phosphatase activity. Any process that modulates the rate or frequency of phosphatase activity. Phosphatases catalyze the hydrolysis of phosphoric monoesters, releasing inorganic phosphate.
GO:0006509	membrane protein ectodomain proteolysis. ectoderm shedding. ectodomain cleavage. membrane protein solubilization. receptor shedding. The proteolytic cleavage of transmembrane proteins and release of their ectodomain (extracellular domain).
GO:0007009	plasma membrane organization. plasma membrane organisation. plasma membrane organization and biogenesis. A process that is carried out at the cellular level which results in the assembly, arrangement of constituent parts, or disassembly of the plasma membrane.
GO:2000353	positive regulation of endothelial cell apoptotic process. positive regulation of apoptosis of endothelial cells. positive regulation of endothelial cell apoptosis. positive regulation of endothelial cell programmed cell death by apoptosis. positive regulation of killing of endothelial cells. positive regulation of programmed cell death of endothelial cells by apoptosis. positive regulation of programmed cell death, endothelial cells. Any process that activates or increases the frequency, rate or extent of endothelial cell apoptotic process.
GO:0007259	receptor signaling pathway via JAK-STAT. JAK-STAT cascade. JAK-STAT signal transduction. Any process in which STAT proteins (Signal Transducers and Activators of Transcription) and JAK (Janus Activated Kinase) proteins convey a signal to trigger a change in the activity or state of a cell. The receptor signaling pathway via JAK-STAT begins with activation of a receptor and proceeeds through STAT protein activation by members of the JAK family of tyrosine kinases. STAT proteins dimerize and subsequently translocate to the nucleus. The pathway ends with regulation of target gene expression by STAT proteins.
GO:0044283	small molecule biosynthetic process. small molecule biosynthesis. The chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the formation of small molecules, any low molecular weight, monomeric, non-encoded molecule.
GO:0051258	protein polymerization. protein polymer biosynthesis. protein polymer biosynthetic process. protein polymer formation. The process of creating protein polymers, compounds composed of a large number of component monomers; polymeric proteins may be made up of different or identical monomers. Polymerization occurs by the addition of extra monomers to an existing poly- or oligomeric protein.
GO:0031572	mitotic G2 DNA damage checkpoint signaling. down regulation of signal transduction involved in mitotic G2 DNA damage checkpoint. down regulation of signal transduction involved in mitotic G2/M transition DNA damage checkpoint. down-regulation of signal transduction involved in mitotic G2 DNA damage checkpoint. down-regulation of signal transduction involved in mitotic G2/M transition DNA damage checkpoint. G2 DNA damage checkpoint. G2/M transition DNA damage checkpoint. inhibition of signal transduction involved in mitotic G2 DNA damage checkpoint. mitotic cell cycle G2/M transition DNA damage checkpoint. mitotic G2 DNA damage checkpoint. negative regulation of signal transduction involved in mitotic G2 DNA damage checkpoint. negative regulation of signal transduction involved in mitotic G2/M transition DNA damage checkpoint. positive regulation of signal transduction involved in mitotic G2 DNA damage checkpoint. positive regulation of signal transduction involved in mitotic G2/M transition DNA damage checkpoint. regulation of signal transduction involved in mitotic G2 DNA damage checkpoint. regulation of signal transduction involved in mitotic G2/M transition DNA damage checkpoint. signal transduction involved in G2 DNA damage checkpoint. signal transduction involved in G2/M transition DNA damage checkpoint. signal transduction involved in mitotic G2 DNA damage checkpoint. signal transduction involved in mitotic G2/M transition DNA damage checkpoint. A mitotic cell cycle checkpoint that detects and negatively regulates progression through the G2/M transition of the cell cycle in response to DNA damage.
GO:0045787	positive regulation of cell cycle. activation of progression through cell cycle. positive regulation of cell cycle progression. positive regulation of progression through cell cycle. stimulation of progression through cell cycle. up regulation of progression through cell cycle. up-regulation of progression through cell cycle. upregulation of progression through cell cycle. Any process that activates or increases the rate or extent of progression through the cell cycle.
GO:1905039	carboxylic acid transmembrane transport. The process in which carboxylic acid is transported across a membrane.
GO:0035239	tube morphogenesis. The process in which the anatomical structures of a tube are generated and organized. Epithelial and endothelial tubes transport gases, liquids and cells from one site to another and form the basic structure of many organs and tissues, with tube shape and organization varying from the single-celled excretory organ in Caenorhabditis elegans to the branching trees of the mammalian kidney and insect tracheal system.
GO:0030104	water homeostasis. osmoregulation. regulation of osmotic pressure. Any process involved in the maintenance of an internal steady state of water within an organism or cell.
GO:0014911	positive regulation of smooth muscle cell migration. Any process that activates, maintains or increases the frequency, rate or extent of smooth muscle cell migration.
GO:0031400	negative regulation of protein modification process. down regulation of protein modification. down-regulation of protein modification. downregulation of protein modification. inhibition of protein modification. Any process that stops, prevents, or reduces the frequency, rate or extent of the covalent alteration of one or more amino acid residues within a protein.
GO:0002792	negative regulation of peptide secretion. down regulation of peptide secretion. down-regulation of peptide secretion. downregulation of peptide secretion. inhibition of peptide secretion. Any process that stops, prevents, or reduces the frequency, rate, or extent of peptide secretion.
GO:0071243	cellular response to arsenic-containing substance. cellular response to arsenic. Any process that results in a change in state or activity of a cell (in terms of movement, secretion, enzyme production, gene expression, etc.) as a result of an arsenic stimulus from compounds containing arsenic, including arsenates, arsenites, and arsenides.
GO:0046058	cAMP metabolic process. 3',5' cAMP metabolic process. 3',5' cAMP metabolism. 3',5'-cAMP metabolic process. 3',5'-cAMP metabolism. adenosine 3',5'-cyclophosphate metabolic process. adenosine 3',5'-cyclophosphate metabolism. cAMP generating peptide activity. cAMP metabolism. cyclic AMP metabolic process. cyclic AMP metabolism. The chemical reactions and pathways involving the nucleotide cAMP (cyclic AMP, adenosine 3',5'-cyclophosphate).
GO:0021510	spinal cord development. The process whose specific outcome is the progression of the spinal cord over time, from its formation to the mature structure. The spinal cord primarily conducts sensory and motor nerve impulses between the brain and the peripheral nervous tissues.
GO:1903312	negative regulation of mRNA metabolic process. down regulation of mRNA metabolic process. down regulation of mRNA metabolism. down-regulation of mRNA metabolic process. down-regulation of mRNA metabolism. downregulation of mRNA metabolic process. downregulation of mRNA metabolism. inhibition of mRNA metabolic process. inhibition of mRNA metabolism. negative regulation of mRNA metabolism. Any process that stops, prevents or reduces the frequency, rate or extent of mRNA metabolic process.
GO:0050951	sensory perception of temperature stimulus. sensory perception of thermal stimulus. The series of events required for an organism to receive a sensory temperature stimulus, convert it to a molecular signal, and recognize and characterize the signal. This is a neurological process.
GO:0032007	negative regulation of TOR signaling. down regulation of TOR signaling pathway. down-regulation of TOR signaling pathway. downregulation of TOR signaling pathway. inhibition of TOR signaling pathway. negative regulation of target of rapamycin signaling pathway. negative regulation of target of rapamycin signalling pathway. negative regulation of TOR signaling cascade. negative regulation of TOR signaling pathway. negative regulation of TOR signalling pathway. Any process that stops, prevents, or reduces the frequency, rate or extent of TOR signaling.
GO:0031329	regulation of cellular catabolic process. regulation of cellular breakdown. regulation of cellular catabolism. regulation of cellular degradation. Any process that modulates the frequency, rate or extent of the chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the breakdown of substances, carried out by individual cells.
GO:0007088	regulation of mitotic nuclear division. regulation of mitosis. Any process that modulates the frequency, rate or extent of mitosis.
GO:0060999	positive regulation of dendritic spine development. Any process that increases the rate, frequency, or extent of dendritic spine development, the process whose specific outcome is the progression of the dendritic spine over time, from its formation to the mature structure.
GO:0051101	regulation of DNA binding. Any process that modulates the frequency, rate or extent of DNA binding. DNA binding is any process in which a gene product interacts selectively with DNA (deoxyribonucleic acid).
GO:1902042	negative regulation of extrinsic apoptotic signaling pathway via death domain receptors. down regulation of death receptor-mediated apoptosis. down regulation of extrinsic apoptotic signaling pathway via death domain receptors. down-regulation of death receptor-mediated apoptosis. down-regulation of extrinsic apoptotic signaling pathway via death domain receptors. downregulation of death receptor-mediated apoptosis. downregulation of extrinsic apoptotic signaling pathway via death domain receptors. inhibition of death receptor-mediated apoptosis. inhibition of extrinsic apoptotic signaling pathway via death domain receptors. negative regulation of death receptor-mediated apoptosis. Any process that stops, prevents or reduces the frequency, rate or extent of extrinsic apoptotic signaling pathway via death domain receptors.
GO:0045821	positive regulation of glycolytic process. activation of glycolysis. stimulation of glycolysis. up regulation of glycolysis. up-regulation of glycolysis. upregulation of glycolysis. Any process that activates or increases the frequency, rate or extent of glycolysis.
GO:1901605	alpha-amino acid metabolic process. alpha-amino acid metabolism. The chemical reactions and pathways involving an alpha-amino acid.
GO:0051482	positive regulation of cytosolic calcium ion concentration involved in phospholipase C-activating G protein-coupled signaling pathway. elevation of calcium ion concentration in cytoplasm during G-protein signaling, coupled to IP3 second messenger (phospholipase C activating). elevation of calcium ion concentration in cytosol during G-protein signaling, coupled to IP3 second messenger (phospholipase C activating). elevation of cytoplasmic calcium ion concentration during G-protein signaling, coupled to IP3 second messenger (phospholipase C activating). elevation of cytoplasmic calcium ion concentration during G-protein signalling, coupled to IP3 second messenger (phospholipase C activating). elevation of cytosolic calcium ion concentration during G-protein signalling, coupled to IP3 second messenger (phospholipase C activating). elevation of cytosolic calcium ion concentration involved in G-protein signaling coupled to IP3 second messenger. elevation of cytosolic calcium ion concentration involved in phospholipase C-activating G-protein coupled signaling pathway. positive regulation of cytosolic calcium ion concentration involved in phospholipase C-activating G-protein coupled signaling pathway. Any process that increases the concentration of calcium ions in the cytosol that occurs as part of a PLC-activating G protein-coupled receptor signaling pathway. G-protein-activated PLC hydrolyses phosphatidylinositol-bisphosphate (PIP2) to release diacylglycerol (DAG) and inositol trisphosphate (IP3). IP3 then binds to calcium release channels in the endoplasmic reticulum (ER) to trigger calcium ion release into the cytosol.
GO:0021953	central nervous system neuron differentiation. The process in which a relatively unspecialized cell acquires specialized features of a neuron whose cell body resides in the central nervous system.
GO:0043113	receptor clustering. The receptor metabolic process that results in grouping of a set of receptors at a cellular location, often to amplify the sensitivity of a signaling response.
GO:0060548	negative regulation of cell death. Any process that decreases the rate or frequency of cell death. Cell death is the specific activation or halting of processes within a cell so that its vital functions markedly cease, rather than simply deteriorating gradually over time, which culminates in cell death.
GO:0009162	deoxyribonucleoside monophosphate metabolic process. deoxyribonucleoside monophosphate metabolism. The chemical reactions and pathways involving a deoxyribonucleoside monophosphate, a compound consisting of a nucleobase linked to a deoxyribose sugar esterified with phosphate on the sugar.
GO:0044255	cellular lipid metabolic process. cellular lipid metabolism. The chemical reactions and pathways involving lipids, as carried out by individual cells.
GO:0042737	xenobiotic catabolic process. drug breakdown. drug catabolic process. drug catabolism. drug degradation. exogenous drug breakdown. exogenous drug catabolic process. exogenous drug catabolism. exogenous drug degradation. xenobiotic breakdown. xenobiotic catabolism. xenobiotic degradation. The chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the breakdown of a xenobiotic compound, a compound foreign to the organim exposed to it. It may be synthesized by another organism (like ampicilin) or it can be a synthetic chemical.
GO:0002287	alpha-beta T cell activation involved in immune response. alpha-beta T cell activation during immune response. alpha-beta T lymphocyte activation during immune response. alpha-beta T-cell activation during immune response. alpha-beta T-lymphocyte activation during immune response. The change in morphology and behavior of an alpha-beta T cell resulting from exposure to a mitogen, cytokine, chemokine, cellular ligand, or an antigen for which it is specific, leading to the initiation or perpetuation of an immune response.
GO:0022400	regulation of rhodopsin mediated signaling pathway. regulation of rhodopsin mediated signalling. Any process that modulates the frequency, rate or extent of rhodopsin-mediated signaling.
GO:0043567	regulation of insulin-like growth factor receptor signaling pathway. regulation of IGF receptor signaling pathway. regulation of IGF receptor signalling pathway. regulation of insulin-like growth factor receptor signalling pathway. Any process that modulates the frequency, rate or extent of insulin-like growth factor receptor signaling.
GO:0002683	negative regulation of immune system process. down regulation of immune system process. down-regulation of immune system process. downregulation of immune system process. inhibition of immune system process. Any process that stops, prevents, or reduces the frequency, rate, or extent of an immune system process.
GO:0043434	response to peptide hormone. response to peptide hormone stimulus. response to polypeptide hormone stimulus. Any process that results in a change in state or activity of a cell or an organism (in terms of movement, secretion, enzyme production, gene expression, etc.) as a result of a peptide hormone stimulus. A peptide hormone is any of a class of peptides that are secreted into the blood stream and have endocrine functions in living animals.
GO:0051969	regulation of transmission of nerve impulse. regulation of conduction of nerve impulse. Any process that modulates the frequency, rate or extent of transmission of a nerve impulse, the sequential electrochemical polarization and depolarization that travels across the membrane of a neuron in response to stimulation.
GO:0072527	pyrimidine-containing compound metabolic process. pyrimidine and derivative metabolic process. pyrimidine-containing compound metabolism. The chemical reactions and pathways involving a pyrimidine-containing compound, i.e. any compound that contains pyrimidine or a formal derivative thereof.
GO:0003180	aortic valve morphogenesis. The process in which the structure of the aortic valve is generated and organized.
GO:0048333	mesodermal cell differentiation. mesoderm cell differentiation. The process in which a relatively unspecialized cell acquires the specialized features of a mesoderm cell.
GO:1901380	negative regulation of potassium ion transmembrane transport. down regulation of potassium ion transmembrane transport. down-regulation of potassium ion transmembrane transport. downregulation of potassium ion transmembrane transport. inhibition of potassium ion transmembrane transport. negative regulation of potassium ion membrane transport. Any process that stops, prevents or reduces the frequency, rate or extent of potassium ion transmembrane transport.
GO:0008347	glial cell migration. glia cell migration. The orderly movement of a glial cell, non-neuronal cells that provide support and nutrition, maintain homeostasis, form myelin, and participate in signal transmission in the nervous system.
GO:0050892	intestinal absorption. Any process in which nutrients are taken up from the contents of the intestine.
GO:2000679	positive regulation of transcription regulatory region DNA binding. Any process that activates or increases the frequency, rate or extent of transcription regulatory region DNA binding.
GO:0030336	negative regulation of cell migration. down regulation of cell migration. down-regulation of cell migration. downregulation of cell migration. inhibition of cell migration. Any process that stops, prevents, or reduces the frequency, rate or extent of cell migration.
GO:2000300	regulation of synaptic vesicle exocytosis. Any process that modulates the frequency, rate or extent of synaptic vesicle exocytosis.
GO:0007617	mating behavior. mating behaviour. The behavioral interactions between organisms for the purpose of mating, or sexual reproduction resulting in the formation of zygotes.
GO:0006909	phagocytosis. A vesicle-mediated transport process that results in the engulfment of external particulate material by phagocytes and their delivery to the lysosome. The particles are initially contained within phagocytic vacuoles (phagosomes), which then fuse with primary lysosomes to effect digestion of the particles.
GO:0032570	response to progesterone. response to progesterone stimulus. Any process that results in a change in state or activity of a cell or an organism (in terms of movement, secretion, enzyme production, gene expression, etc.) as a result of a progesterone stimulus.
GO:0042461	photoreceptor cell development. photoreceptor morphogenesis. Development of a photoreceptor, a cell that responds to incident electromagnetic radiation, particularly visible light.
GO:0006939	smooth muscle contraction. visceral muscle contraction. A process in which force is generated within smooth muscle tissue, resulting in a change in muscle geometry. Force generation involves a chemo-mechanical energy conversion step that is carried out by the actin/myosin complex activity, which generates force through ATP hydrolysis. Smooth muscle differs from striated muscle in the much higher actin/myosin ratio, the absence of conspicuous sarcomeres and the ability to contract to a much smaller fraction of its resting length.
GO:1901655	cellular response to ketone. Any process that results in a change in state or activity of a cell (in terms of movement, secretion, enzyme production, gene expression, etc.) as a result of a ketone stimulus.
GO:0071229	cellular response to acid chemical. cellular response to acid. cellular response to acid anion. cellular response to oxoanion. Any process that results in a change in state or activity of a cell (in terms of movement, secretion, enzyme production, gene expression, etc.) as a result of a stimulus by the chemical structure of the anion portion of the dissociated acid (rather than the acid acting as a proton donor). The acid chemical may be in gaseous, liquid or solid form.
GO:0052547	regulation of peptidase activity. peptidase regulator activity. Any process that modulates the frequency, rate or extent of peptidase activity, the hydrolysis of peptide bonds within proteins.
GO:1901362	organic cyclic compound biosynthetic process. organic cyclic compound anabolism. organic cyclic compound biosynthesis. organic cyclic compound formation. organic cyclic compound synthesis. The chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the formation of organic cyclic compound.
GO:0032682	negative regulation of chemokine production. down regulation of chemokine production. down-regulation of chemokine production. downregulation of chemokine production. inhibition of chemokine production. negative regulation of chemokine biosynthetic process. negative regulation of chemokine secretion. Any process that stops, prevents, or reduces the frequency, rate, or extent of chemokine production.
GO:0002062	chondrocyte differentiation. The process in which a chondroblast acquires specialized structural and/or functional features of a chondrocyte. A chondrocyte is a polymorphic cell that forms cartilage.
GO:0035384	thioester biosynthetic process. thioester anabolism. thioester biosynthesis. thioester formation. thioester synthesis. The chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the formation of a thioester, a compound of general formula RC(=O)SR' in which the linking oxygen in an ester is replaced by a sulfur atom. They are the product of esterification between a carboxylic acid and a thiol.
GO:0045649	regulation of macrophage differentiation. Any process that modulates the frequency, rate or extent of macrophage differentiation.
GO:0046854	phosphatidylinositol phosphate biosynthetic process. phosphatidylinositol phosphate biosynthesis. phosphatidylinositol phosphate phosphorylation. phosphatidylinositol phosphorylation. phosphoinositide phosphorylation. PIP biosynthesis. PtdInsP biosynthesis. The chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the formation of phosphatidylinositol phosphate.
GO:0017148	negative regulation of translation. down regulation of protein biosynthetic process. down-regulation of protein biosynthetic process. downregulation of protein biosynthetic process. inhibition of protein biosynthetic process. negative regulation of protein anabolism. negative regulation of protein biosynthesis. negative regulation of protein biosynthetic process. negative regulation of protein formation. negative regulation of protein synthesis. protein biosynthesis inhibitor activity. protein biosynthetic process inhibitor activity. Any process that stops, prevents, or reduces the frequency, rate or extent of the chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the formation of proteins by the translation of mRNA or circRNA.
GO:0006783	heme biosynthetic process. haem biosynthesis. haem biosynthetic process. heme anabolism. heme biosynthesis. heme formation. heme synthesis. The chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the formation of heme, any compound of iron complexed in a porphyrin (tetrapyrrole) ring, from less complex precursors.
GO:0070303	negative regulation of stress-activated protein kinase signaling cascade. down regulation of stress-activated protein kinase signaling pathway. down-regulation of stress-activated protein kinase signaling pathway. downregulation of stress-activated protein kinase signaling pathway. inhibition of stress-activated protein kinase signaling pathway. negative regulation of SAPK signaling pathway. negative regulation of stress-activated protein kinase signaling pathway. negative regulation of stress-activated protein kinase signalling pathway. Any process that stops, prevents, or reduces the frequency, rate or extent of signaling via the stress-activated protein kinase signaling cascade.
GO:0045621	positive regulation of lymphocyte differentiation. activation of lymphocyte differentiation. positive regulation of lymphocyte development. stimulation of lymphocyte differentiation. up regulation of lymphocyte differentiation. up-regulation of lymphocyte differentiation. upregulation of lymphocyte differentiation. Any process that activates or increases the frequency, rate or extent of lymphocyte differentiation.
GO:1901385	regulation of voltage-gated calcium channel activity. regulation of depolarization-activated calcium channel. regulation of depolarization-activated voltage gated calcium channel activity. regulation of depolarization-activated voltage-gated calcium channel. regulation of depolarization-activated voltage-gated calcium channel activity. regulation of dihydropyridine-sensitive calcium channel activity. regulation of voltage gated calcium channel activity. regulation of voltage-dependent calcium channel activity. regulation of voltage-gated calcium ion channel activity. regulation of voltage-sensitive calcium channel. Any process that modulates the frequency, rate or extent of voltage-gated calcium channel activity.
GO:0009880	embryonic pattern specification. embryonic pattern biosynthesis. embryonic pattern formation. ventral/lateral system. The process that results in the patterns of cell differentiation that will arise in an embryo.
GO:0018958	phenol-containing compound metabolic process. carbolic acid metabolic process. carbolic acid metabolism. hydroxybenzene metabolic process. hydroxybenzene metabolism. phenol-containing compound metabolism. The chemical reactions and pathways involving a phenol, any compound containing one or more hydroxyl groups directly attached to an aromatic carbon ring.
GO:0043921	modulation by host of viral transcription. regulation by host of viral transcription. regulation of viral transcription by host. Any process in which a host organism modulates the frequency, rate or extent of viral transcription.
GO:0007613	memory. The activities involved in the mental information processing system that receives (registers), modifies, stores, and retrieves informational stimuli. The main stages involved in the formation and retrieval of memory are encoding (processing of received information by acquisition), storage (building a permanent record of received information as a result of consolidation) and retrieval (calling back the stored information and use it in a suitable way to execute a given task).
GO:0009409	response to cold. freezing tolerance. Any process that results in a change in state or activity of a cell or an organism (in terms of movement, secretion, enzyme production, gene expression, etc.) as a result of a cold stimulus, a temperature stimulus below the optimal temperature for that organism.
GO:0110110	positive regulation of animal organ morphogenesis. Any process that activates or increases the frequency, rate or extent of animal organ morphogenesis.
GO:0051496	positive regulation of stress fiber assembly. activation of stress fiber formation. positive regulation of stress fibre biosynthesis. positive regulation of stress fibre formation. stimulation of stress fiber formation. up regulation of stress fiber formation. up-regulation of stress fiber formation. upregulation of stress fiber formation. Any process that activates or increases the frequency, rate or extent of the assembly of a stress fiber, a bundle of microfilaments and other proteins found in fibroblasts.
GO:0006805	xenobiotic metabolic process. drug metabolic process. drug metabolism. xenobiotic metabolism. The chemical reactions and pathways involving a xenobiotic compound, a compound foreign to the organim exposed to it. It may be synthesized by another organism (like ampicilin) or it can be a synthetic chemical.
GO:0035774	positive regulation of insulin secretion involved in cellular response to glucose stimulus. positive regulation of insulin secretion in response to glucose. Any process that increases the frequency, rate or extent of the regulated release of insulin that contributes to the response of a cell to glucose.
GO:1902475	L-alpha-amino acid transmembrane transport. The directed movement of L-alpha-amino acid across a membrane.
GO:0002830	positive regulation of type 2 immune response. activation of type 2 immune response. positive regulation of T-helper 2 type immune response. positive regulation of Th2 immune response. stimulation of type 2 immune response. up regulation of type 2 immune response. up-regulation of type 2 immune response. upregulation of type 2 immune response. Any process that activates or increases the frequency, rate, or extent of a type 2 immune response.
GO:0050885	neuromuscular process controlling balance. regulation of balance. Any process that an organism uses to control its balance, the orientation of the organism (or the head of the organism) in relation to the source of gravity. In humans and animals, balance is perceived through visual cues, the labyrinth system of the inner ears and information from skin pressure receptors and muscle and joint receptors.
GO:0035329	hippo signaling. hippo signal transduction. hippo signaling cascade. hippo signaling pathway. hippo signalling cascade. Salvador-Warts-Hippo signaling pathway. SWH pathway. The series of molecular signals mediated by the serine/threonine kinase Hippo or one of its orthologs. In Drosophila, Hippo in complex with the scaffold protein Salvador (Sav), phosphorylates and activates Warts (Wts), which in turn phosphorylates and inactivates the Yorkie (Yki) transcriptional activator. The core fly components hippo, sav, wts and mats are conserved in mammals as STK4/3 (MST1/2), SAV1/WW45, LATS1/2 and MOB1.
GO:0030307	positive regulation of cell growth. activation of cell growth. stimulation of cell growth. up regulation of cell growth. up-regulation of cell growth. upregulation of cell growth. Any process that activates or increases the frequency, rate, extent or direction of cell growth.
GO:0007423	sensory organ development. sense organ development. The process whose specific outcome is the progression of sensory organs over time, from its formation to the mature structure.
GO:0003158	endothelium development. The process whose specific outcome is the progression of an endothelium over time, from its formation to the mature structure. Endothelium refers to the layer of cells lining blood vessels, lymphatics, the heart, and serous cavities, and is derived from bone marrow or mesoderm. Corneal endothelium is a special case, derived from neural crest cells.
GO:0006812	cation transport. di-, tri-valent inorganic cation transport. trivalent inorganic cation transport. The directed movement of cations, atoms or small molecules with a net positive charge, into, out of or within a cell, or between cells, by means of some agent such as a transporter or pore.
GO:0021983	pituitary gland development. hypophysis development. The progression of the pituitary gland over time from its initial formation until its mature state. The pituitary gland is an endocrine gland that secretes hormones that regulate many other glands.
GO:0000096	sulfur amino acid metabolic process. sulfur amino acid metabolism. sulphur amino acid metabolic process. sulphur amino acid metabolism. The chemical reactions and pathways involving amino acids containing sulfur, comprising cysteine, homocysteine, methionine and selenocysteine.
GO:0060325	face morphogenesis. The process in which the anatomical structures of the face are generated and organized. The face is the ventral division of the head.
GO:0031128	developmental induction. A developmental process involving two tissues in which one tissue (the inducer) produces a signal that directs cell fate commitment of cells in the second tissue (the responder).
GO:0019373	epoxygenase P450 pathway. The chemical reactions and pathways by which arachidonic acid is converted to other compounds including epoxyeicosatrienoic acids and dihydroxyeicosatrienoic acids.
GO:0043270	positive regulation of ion transport. activation of ion transport. stimulation of ion transport. up regulation of ion transport. up-regulation of ion transport. upregulation of ion transport. Any process that activates or increases the frequency, rate or extent of the directed movement of charged atoms or small charged molecules into, out of or within a cell, or between cells, by means of some agent such as a transporter or pore.
GO:0060071	Wnt signaling pathway, planar cell polarity pathway. non-canonical Wnt signaling pathway. PCP pathway. planar cell polarity pathway. Wnt receptor signaling pathway, planar cell polarity pathway. Wnt receptor signalling pathway, planar cell polarity pathway. Wnt-activated signaling pathway, planar cell polarity pathway. Wnt-JNK signaling pathway. Wnt-PCP signaling pathway. The series of molecular signals initiated by binding of a Wnt protein to a receptor on the surface of the target cell where activated receptors signal via downstream effectors including C-Jun N-terminal kinase (JNK) to modulate cytoskeletal elements and control cell polarity.
GO:0060401	calcium ion transmembrane import into cytosol. calcium transmembrane import into cytosol. cytosolic calcium ion transport. A process in which a calcium ion is transported from one side of a membrane to the other into the cytosol by means of some agent such as a transporter or pore.
GO:0071276	cellular response to cadmium ion. cellular response to cadmium. Any process that results in a change in state or activity of a cell (in terms of movement, secretion, enzyme production, gene expression, etc.) as a result of a cadmium (Cd) ion stimulus.
GO:0038083	peptidyl-tyrosine autophosphorylation. receptor tyrosine kinase autophosphorylation. RTK autophosphorylation. tyrosine autophosphorylation. The phosphorylation by a protein of one or more of its own tyrosine amino acid residues, or a tyrosine residue on an identical protein.
GO:0003006	developmental process involved in reproduction. puberty. reproductive developmental process. A developmental process in which a progressive change in the state of some part of an organism, germline or somatic, specifically contributes to its ability to form offspring.
GO:0034333	adherens junction assembly. adherens junction formation. The aggregation, arrangement and bonding together of a set of components to form an adherens junction. An adherens junction is a cell-cell junction composed of the epithelial cadherin-catenin complex at which the cytoplasmic face of the plasma membrane is attached to actin filaments.
GO:0009888	tissue development. histogenesis. histogenesis and organogenesis. The process whose specific outcome is the progression of a tissue over time, from its formation to the mature structure.
GO:0000082	G1/S transition of mitotic cell cycle. The mitotic cell cycle transition by which a cell in G1 commits to S phase. The process begins with the build up of G1 cyclin-dependent kinase (G1 CDK), resulting in the activation of transcription of G1 cyclins. The process ends with the positive feedback of the G1 cyclins on the G1 CDK which commits the cell to S phase, in which DNA replication is initiated.
GO:0031099	regeneration. The regrowth of a lost or destroyed body part, such as an organ or tissue. This process may occur via renewal, repair, and/or growth alone (i.e. increase in size or mass).
GO:0002437	inflammatory response to antigenic stimulus. An inflammatory response to an antigenic stimulus, which can be include any number of T cell or B cell epitopes.
GO:0061098	positive regulation of protein tyrosine kinase activity. Any process that increases the rate, frequency, or extent of protein tyrosine kinase activity.
GO:0043516	regulation of DNA damage response, signal transduction by p53 class mediator. regulation of p53 induced by DNA damage response. Any process that modulates the frequency, rate or extent of the cascade of processes induced by the cell cycle regulator phosphoprotein p53, or an equivalent protein, in response to the detection of DNA damage.
GO:0050718	positive regulation of interleukin-1 beta production. activation of interleukin-1 beta production. positive regulation of IL-1 beta production. positive regulation of interleukin-1 beta biosynthetic process. positive regulation of interleukin-1 beta secretion. stimulation of interleukin-1 beta production. up regulation of interleukin-1 beta production. up-regulation of interleukin-1 beta production. upregulation of interleukin-1 beta production. Any process that activates or increases the frequency, rate, or extent of interleukin-1 beta production.
GO:0070723	response to cholesterol. Any process that results in a change in state or activity of a cell or an organism (in terms of movement, secretion, enzyme production, gene expression, etc.) as a result of a cholesterol stimulus.
GO:0048589	developmental growth. The increase in size or mass of an entire organism, a part of an organism or a cell, where the increase in size or mass has the specific outcome of the progression of the organism over time from one condition to another.
GO:0001764	neuron migration. neuron chemotaxis. neuron guidance. neuronal migration. The characteristic movement of an immature neuron from germinal zones to specific positions where they will reside as they mature.
GO:0002274	myeloid leukocyte activation. myeloid leucocyte activation. A change in the morphology or behavior of a myeloid leukocyte resulting from exposure to an activating factor such as a cellular or soluble ligand.
GO:0051181	obsolete cofactor transport. vitamin or cofactor transport. OBSOLETE. The directed movement of a cofactor into, out of or within a cell, or between cells, by means of some agent such as a transporter or pore. A cofactor is a substance that is required for the activity of an enzyme or other protein.
GO:0033146	regulation of intracellular estrogen receptor signaling pathway. regulation of estrogen receptor signaling pathway. regulation of estrogen receptor signalling pathway. Any process that modulates the frequency, rate or extent of the activity of an intracellular estrogen receptor signaling pathway.
GO:0009651	response to salt stress. response to ionic osmotic stress. salinity response. Any process that results in a change in state or activity of a cell or an organism (in terms of movement, secretion, enzyme production, gene expression, etc.) as a result of a stimulus indicating an increase or decrease in the concentration of salt (particularly but not exclusively sodium and chloride ions) in the environment.
GO:0060291	long-term synaptic potentiation. long-term potentiation. LTP. A process that modulates synaptic plasticity such that synapses are changed resulting in the increase in the rate, or frequency of synaptic transmission at the synapse.
GO:0007212	dopamine receptor signaling pathway. dopamine receptor signalling pathway. The series of molecular signals generated as a consequence of a dopamine receptor binding to one of its physiological ligands.
GO:0001947	heart looping. cardiac looping. The tube morphogenesis process in which the primitive heart tube loops asymmetrically. This looping brings the primitive heart chambers into alignment preceding their future integration. Heart looping begins with dextral-looping and ends when the main regional divisions of the mature heart and primordium of the great arterial trunks become established preceeding septation.
GO:0048609	multicellular organismal reproductive process. organismal reproductive process. reproductive process in a multicellular organism. The process, occurring above the cellular level, that is pertinent to the reproductive function of a multicellular organism. This includes the integrated processes at the level of tissues and organs.
GO:0001659	temperature homeostasis. thermoregulation. A homeostatic process in which an organism modulates its internal body temperature.
GO:0010759	positive regulation of macrophage chemotaxis. Any process that increases the rate, frequency or extent of macrophage chemotaxis. Macrophage chemotaxis is the movement of a macrophage in response to an external stimulus.
GO:0017156	calcium-ion regulated exocytosis. calcium ion-dependent exocytosis. The release of intracellular molecules (e.g. hormones, matrix proteins) contained within a membrane-bounded vesicle by fusion of the vesicle with the plasma membrane of a cell, induced by a rise in cytosolic calcium-ion levels.
GO:0048729	tissue morphogenesis. The process in which the anatomical structures of a tissue are generated and organized.
GO:0061061	muscle structure development. The progression of a muscle structure over time, from its formation to its mature state. Muscle structures are contractile cells, tissues or organs that are found in multicellular organisms.
GO:0035107	appendage morphogenesis. The process in which the anatomical structures of appendages are generated and organized. An appendage is an organ or part that is attached to the trunk of an organism, such as a limb or a branch.
GO:0072594	establishment of protein localization to organelle. establishment of protein localisation to organelle. The directed movement of a protein to a specific location on or in an organelle. Encompasses establishment of localization in the membrane or lumen of a membrane-bounded organelle.
GO:0001822	kidney development. nephrogenesis. The process whose specific outcome is the progression of the kidney over time, from its formation to the mature structure. The kidney is an organ that filters the blood and/or excretes the end products of body metabolism in the form of urine.
GO:0060967	negative regulation of gene silencing by RNA. Any process that decreases the rate, frequency, or extent of gene silencing by RNA. Gene silencing by RNA is the process in which RNA molecules inactivate expression of target genes.
GO:0098813	nuclear chromosome segregation. The process in which genetic material, in the form of nuclear chromosomes, is organized into specific structures and then physically separated and apportioned to two or more sets. Nuclear chromosome segregation begins with the condensation of chromosomes, includes chromosome separation, and ends when chromosomes have completed movement to the spindle poles.
GO:0044772	mitotic cell cycle phase transition. The cell cycle process by which a cell commits to entering the next mitotic cell cycle phase.
GO:0016485	protein processing. peptidolysis during protein maturation. protein maturation by peptide bond cleavage. protein maturation by peptide bond hydrolysis. protein maturation by proteolysis. Any protein maturation process achieved by the cleavage of a peptide bond or bonds within a protein. Protein maturation is the process leading to the attainment of the full functional capacity of a protein.
GO:0007165	signal transduction. signal transduction by cis-phosphorylation. signal transduction by conformational transition. signal transduction by protein phosphorylation. signal transduction by trans-phosphorylation. signaling cascade. signaling pathway. signalling cascade. signalling pathway. The cellular process in which a signal is conveyed to trigger a change in the activity or state of a cell. Signal transduction begins with reception of a signal (e.g. a ligand binding to a receptor or receptor activation by a stimulus such as light), or for signal transduction in the absence of ligand, signal-withdrawal or the activity of a constitutively active receptor. Signal transduction ends with regulation of a downstream cellular process, e.g. regulation of transcription or regulation of a metabolic process. Signal transduction covers signaling from receptors located on the surface of the cell and signaling via molecules located within the cell. For signaling between cells, signal transduction is restricted to events at and within the receiving cell.
GO:0007229	integrin-mediated signaling pathway. integrin-mediated signalling pathway. The series of molecular signals initiated by an extracellular ligand binding to an integrin on the surface of a target cell, and ending with the regulation of a downstream cellular process, e.g. transcription.
GO:0061621	canonical glycolysis. The glycolytic process that begins with the conversion of glucose to glucose-6-phosphate by glucokinase activity. Glycolytic processes are the  chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the breakdown of a carbohydrate into pyruvate, with the concomitant production of a small amount of ATP.
GO:0019371	cyclooxygenase pathway. The chemical reactions and pathways by which prostaglandins are formed from arachidonic acid, and in which prostaglandin-endoperoxide synthase (cyclooxygenase) catalyzes the committed step in the conversion of arachidonic acid to the prostaglandin-endoperoxides PGG2 and PGH2.
GO:0072662	protein localization to peroxisome. protein localisation to peroxisome. A process in which a protein is transported to, or maintained at, a location in a peroxisome.
GO:0055078	sodium ion homeostasis. Any process involved in the maintenance of an internal steady state of sodium ions within an organism or cell.
GO:0051302	regulation of cell division. Any process that modulates the frequency, rate or extent of the physical partitioning and separation of a cell into daughter cells.
GO:0045736	negative regulation of cyclin-dependent protein serine/threonine kinase activity. Any process that stops, prevents, or reduces the frequency, rate or extent of cyclin-dependent protein serine/threonine kinase activity.
GO:0071731	response to nitric oxide. Any process that results in a change in state or activity of a cell or an organism (in terms of movement, secretion, enzyme production, gene expression, etc.) as a result of a nitric oxide stimulus.
GO:0003401	axis elongation. elongation of an axis. The developmental growth that results in the elongation of a line that defines polarity or symmetry in an anatomical structure.
GO:0046621	negative regulation of organ growth. Any process that stops, prevents, or reduces the frequency, rate or extent of growth of an organ of an organism.
GO:0034122	negative regulation of toll-like receptor signaling pathway. negative regulation of TLR signaling pathway. negative regulation of toll-like receptor signalling pathway. Any process that stops, prevents, or reduces the frequency, rate, or extent of toll-like receptor signaling pathway.
GO:0097193	intrinsic apoptotic signaling pathway. induction of apoptosis by intracellular signals. intrinsic apoptosis. intrinsic apoptotic pathway. intrinsic apoptotic signalling pathway. mitochondrial-mediated apoptotic pathway. The series of molecular signals in which an intracellular signal is conveyed to trigger the apoptotic death of a cell. The pathway starts with reception of an intracellular signal (e.g. DNA damage, endoplasmic reticulum stress, oxidative stress etc.), and ends when the execution phase of apoptosis is triggered. The intrinsic apoptotic signaling pathway is crucially regulated by permeabilization of the mitochondrial outer membrane (MOMP).
GO:0051130	positive regulation of cellular component organization. activation of cell organization. positive regulation of cell organisation. positive regulation of cellular component organization and biogenesis. stimulation of cell organization. up regulation of cell organization. up-regulation of cell organization. upregulation of cell organization. Any process that activates or increases the frequency, rate or extent of a process involved in the formation, arrangement of constituent parts, or disassembly of cell structures, including the plasma membrane and any external encapsulating structures such as the cell wall and cell envelope.
GO:0043086	negative regulation of catalytic activity. down regulation of enzyme activity. down regulation of metalloenzyme activity. down-regulation of enzyme activity. down-regulation of metalloenzyme activity. downregulation of enzyme activity. downregulation of metalloenzyme activity. inhibition of enzyme activity. inhibition of metalloenzyme activity. negative regulation of enzyme activity. negative regulation of metalloenzyme activity. Any process that stops or reduces the activity of an enzyme.
GO:0009130	pyrimidine nucleoside monophosphate biosynthetic process. pyrimidine nucleoside monophosphate anabolism. pyrimidine nucleoside monophosphate biosynthesis. pyrimidine nucleoside monophosphate formation. pyrimidine nucleoside monophosphate synthesis. The chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the formation of pyrimidine nucleoside monophosphate, a compound consisting of a pyrimidine base linked to a ribose or deoxyribose sugar esterified with phosphate on the sugar.
GO:0051272	obsolete positive regulation of cellular component movement. positive regulation of cellular component motion. OBSOLETE. Any process that activates or increases the frequency, rate or extent of the movement of a cellular component.
GO:0008214	protein dealkylation. protein amino acid dealkylation. The removal of an alkyl group from a protein amino acid. Alkyl groups are derived from alkanes by removal of one hydrogen atom.
GO:1901658	glycosyl compound catabolic process. glycosyl compound breakdown. glycosyl compound catabolism. glycosyl compound degradation. The chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the breakdown of glycosyl compound.
GO:0015914	phospholipid transport. The directed movement of phospholipids into, out of or within a cell, or between cells, by means of some agent such as a transporter or pore. Phospholipids are any lipids containing phosphoric acid as a mono- or diester.
GO:0010810	regulation of cell-substrate adhesion. Any process that modulates the frequency, rate or extent of cell-substrate adhesion. Cell-substrate adhesion is the attachment of a cell to the underlying substrate via adhesion molecules.
GO:1903037	regulation of leukocyte cell-cell adhesion. regulation of leukocyte adhesion. regulation of leukocyte cell adhesion. Any process that modulates the frequency, rate or extent of leukocyte cell-cell adhesion.
GO:1901016	regulation of potassium ion transmembrane transporter activity. regulation of potassium transporter activity. Any process that modulates the frequency, rate or extent of potassium ion transmembrane transporter activity.
GO:0046661	male sex differentiation. The establishment of the sex of a male organism by physical differentiation.
GO:0050482	arachidonic acid secretion. The controlled release of arachidonic acid from a cell or a tissue.
GO:0052695	cellular glucuronidation. cellular glucuronide biosynthesis. cellular glucuronide biosynthetic process. cellular glucuronoside biosynthesis. cellular glucuronoside biosynthetic process. The modification of an organic chemical by the conjugation of glucuronic acid. The substances resulting from glucuronidation are known as glucuronosides (or glucuronides) and are often much more water-soluble than the non-glucuronic acid-containing precursor.
GO:0007596	blood coagulation. blood clotting. The sequential process in which the multiple coagulation factors of the blood interact, ultimately resulting in the formation of an insoluble fibrin clot; it may be divided into three stages: stage 1, the formation of intrinsic and extrinsic prothrombin converting principle; stage 2, the formation of thrombin; stage 3, the formation of stable fibrin polymers.
GO:1904752	regulation of vascular associated smooth muscle cell migration. regulation of vascular smooth muscle cell migration. Any process that modulates the frequency, rate or extent of vascular associated smooth muscle cell migration.
GO:0043537	negative regulation of blood vessel endothelial cell migration. down regulation of blood vessel endothelial cell migration. down-regulation of blood vessel endothelial cell migration. downregulation of blood vessel endothelial cell migration. inhibition of blood vessel endothelial cell migration. Any process that stops, prevents, or reduces the frequency, rate or extent of the migration of the endothelial cells of blood vessels.
GO:0044282	small molecule catabolic process. small molecule catabolism. The chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the breakdown of small molecules, any low molecular weight, monomeric, non-encoded molecule.
GO:1903828	negative regulation of protein localization. down regulation of cellular protein localisation. down regulation of cellular protein localization. down-regulation of cellular protein localisation. down-regulation of cellular protein localization. downregulation of cellular protein localisation. downregulation of cellular protein localization. inhibition of cellular protein localisation. inhibition of cellular protein localization. negative regulation of cellular protein localisation. negative regulation of cellular protein localization. Any process that stops, prevents or reduces the frequency, rate or extent of a protein localization.
GO:0006606	protein import into nucleus. establishment of protein localization to nucleus. protein import into cell nucleus. protein nucleus import. protein transport from cytoplasm to nucleus. The directed movement of a protein from the cytoplasm to the nucleus.
GO:0033189	response to vitamin A. response to retinol. Any process that results in a change in state or activity of a cell or an organism (in terms of movement, secretion, enzyme production, gene expression, etc.) as a result of a vitamin A stimulus.
GO:0042135	neurotransmitter catabolic process. neurotransmitter breakdown. neurotransmitter catabolism. neurotransmitter degradation. The chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the breakdown of any of a group of substances that are released on excitation from the axon terminal of a presynaptic neuron of the central or peripheral nervous system and travel across the synaptic cleft to either excite or inhibit the target cell.
GO:0051930	regulation of sensory perception of pain. Any process that modulates the frequency, rate or extent of the sensory perception of pain, the series of events required for an organism to receive a painful stimulus, convert it to a molecular signal, and recognize and characterize the signal.
GO:0000413	protein peptidyl-prolyl isomerization. protein proline isomerization. The modification of a protein by cis-trans isomerization of a proline residue.
GO:0060338	regulation of type I interferon-mediated signaling pathway. regulation of type I interferon-mediated signalling pathway. Any process that modulates the rate, frequency or extent of a type I interferon-mediated signaling pathway.
GO:0006024	glycosaminoglycan biosynthetic process. glycosaminoglycan anabolism. glycosaminoglycan biosynthesis. glycosaminoglycan formation. glycosaminoglycan synthesis. The chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the formation of glycosaminoglycans, any of a group of polysaccharides that contain amino sugars.
GO:0045935	positive regulation of nucleobase-containing compound metabolic process. activation of nucleobase, nucleoside, nucleotide and nucleic acid metabolic process. positive regulation of nucleobase, nucleoside, nucleotide and nucleic acid metabolic process. positive regulation of nucleobase, nucleoside, nucleotide and nucleic acid metabolism. stimulation of nucleobase, nucleoside, nucleotide and nucleic acid metabolic process. up regulation of nucleobase, nucleoside, nucleotide and nucleic acid metabolic process. up-regulation of nucleobase, nucleoside, nucleotide and nucleic acid metabolic process. upregulation of nucleobase, nucleoside, nucleotide and nucleic acid metabolic process. Any cellular process that activates or increases the frequency, rate or extent of the chemical reactions and pathways involving nucleobases, nucleosides, nucleotides and nucleic acids.
GO:0071396	cellular response to lipid. Any process that results in a change in state or activity of a cell (in terms of movement, secretion, enzyme production, gene expression, etc.) as a result of a lipid stimulus.
GO:0003009	skeletal muscle contraction. A process in which force is generated within skeletal muscle tissue, resulting in a change in muscle geometry. Force generation involves a chemo-mechanical energy conversion step that is carried out by the actin/myosin complex activity, which generates force through ATP hydrolysis. In the skeletal muscle, the muscle contraction takes advantage of an ordered sarcomeric structure and in most cases it is under voluntary control.
GO:0055114	obsolete oxidation-reduction process. oxidation reduction. oxidoreductase process. OBSOLETE. A metabolic process that results in the removal or addition of one or more electrons to or from a substance, with or without the concomitant removal or addition of a proton or protons.
GO:1902533	positive regulation of intracellular signal transduction. activation of intracellular signal transduction. activation of intracellular signal transduction pathway. activation of intracellular signaling cascade. activation of intracellular signaling chain. activation of intracellular signaling pathway. activation of signal transduction via intracellular signaling cascade. activation of signal transmission via intracellular cascade. positive regulation of intracellular protein kinase cascade. positive regulation of intracellular signal transduction pathway. positive regulation of intracellular signaling cascade. positive regulation of intracellular signaling chain. positive regulation of intracellular signaling pathway. positive regulation of signal transduction via intracellular signaling cascade. positive regulation of signal transmission via intracellular cascade. up regulation of intracellular signal transduction. up regulation of intracellular signal transduction pathway. up regulation of intracellular signaling cascade. up regulation of intracellular signaling chain. up regulation of intracellular signaling pathway. up regulation of signal transduction via intracellular signaling cascade. up regulation of signal transmission via intracellular cascade. up-regulation of intracellular signal transduction. up-regulation of intracellular signal transduction pathway. up-regulation of intracellular signaling cascade. up-regulation of intracellular signaling chain. up-regulation of intracellular signaling pathway. up-regulation of signal transduction via intracellular signaling cascade. up-regulation of signal transmission via intracellular cascade. upregulation of intracellular signal transduction. upregulation of intracellular signal transduction pathway. upregulation of intracellular signaling cascade. upregulation of intracellular signaling chain. upregulation of intracellular signaling pathway. upregulation of signal transduction via intracellular signaling cascade. upregulation of signal transmission via intracellular cascade. Any process that activates or increases the frequency, rate or extent of intracellular signal transduction.
GO:0032091	negative regulation of protein binding. down regulation of protein binding. down-regulation of protein binding. downregulation of protein binding. inhibition of protein binding. Any process that stops, prevents, or reduces the frequency, rate or extent of protein binding.
GO:0042102	positive regulation of T cell proliferation. activation of T cell proliferation. positive regulation of T lymphocyte proliferation. positive regulation of T-lymphocyte proliferation. stimulation of T cell proliferation. up regulation of T cell proliferation. up-regulation of T cell proliferation. upregulation of T cell proliferation. Any process that activates or increases the rate or extent of T cell proliferation.
GO:0034312	diol biosynthetic process. dihydric alcohol biosynthetic process. diol anabolism. diol biosynthesis. diol formation. diol synthesis. The chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the formation of a diol, any alcohol containing two hydroxyl groups attached to saturated carbon atoms.
GO:2000179	positive regulation of neural precursor cell proliferation. Any process that activates or increases the frequency, rate or extent of neural precursor cell proliferation.
GO:0042423	catecholamine biosynthetic process. catecholamine anabolism. catecholamine biosynthesis. catecholamine formation. catecholamine synthesis. The chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the formation of any of a group of physiologically important biogenic amines that possess a catechol (3,4-dihydroxyphenyl) nucleus and are derivatives of 3,4-dihydroxyphenylethylamine.
GO:0010718	positive regulation of epithelial to mesenchymal transition. Any process that increases the rate, frequency, or extent of epithelial to mesenchymal transition. Epithelial to mesenchymal transition is where an epithelial cell loses apical/basolateral polarity, severs intercellular adhesive junctions, degrades basement membrane components and becomes a migratory mesenchymal cell.
GO:0032967	positive regulation of collagen biosynthetic process. positive regulation of collagen anabolism. positive regulation of collagen biosynthesis. positive regulation of collagen formation. positive regulation of collagen synthesis. Any process that activates or increases the frequency, rate or extent of the chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the formation of collagen, any of a group of fibrous proteins of very high tensile strength that form the main component of connective tissue in animals.
GO:0019433	triglyceride catabolic process. triacylglycerol catabolic process. triacylglycerol catabolism. triglyceride breakdown. triglyceride catabolism. triglyceride degradation. The chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the breakdown of a triglyceride, any triester of glycerol.
GO:0043902	obsolete positive regulation of multi-organism process. OBSOLETE. Any process that activates or increases the frequency, rate or extent of a multi-organism process, a process in which an organism has an effect on another organism of the same or different species.
GO:0071333	cellular response to glucose stimulus. Any process that results in a change in state or activity of a cell (in terms of movement, secretion, enzyme production, gene expression, etc.) as a result of a glucose stimulus.
GO:0007566	embryo implantation. blastocyst implantation. Attachment of the blastocyst to the uterine lining.
GO:1900101	regulation of endoplasmic reticulum unfolded protein response. regulation of ER unfolded protein response. regulation of erUPR. regulation of SREBP-mediated signalling pathway. Any process that modulates the frequency, rate or extent of endoplasmic reticulum unfolded protein response.
GO:0040018	positive regulation of multicellular organism growth. positive regulation of body growth. positive regulation of body size. Any process that activates or increases the frequency, rate or extent of growth of an organism to reach its usual body size.
GO:0002026	regulation of the force of heart contraction. cardiac inotropy. heart inotropy. Any process that modulates the extent of heart contraction, changing the force with which blood is propelled.
GO:0019722	calcium-mediated signaling. calcium ion signaling. calcium signaling. calcium signalling. calcium-mediated signalling. Any intracellular signal transduction in which the signal is passed on within the cell via calcium ions.
GO:0051224	negative regulation of protein transport. down regulation of protein transport. down-regulation of protein transport. downregulation of protein transport. inhibition of protein transport. Any process that stops, prevents, or reduces the frequency, rate or extent of the directed movement of a protein into, out of or within a cell, or between cells, by means of some agent such as a transporter or pore.
GO:1903509	liposaccharide metabolic process. liposaccharide metabolism. The chemical reactions and pathways involving liposaccharide.
GO:0007519	skeletal muscle tissue development. myogenesis. The developmental sequence of events leading to the formation of adult skeletal muscle tissue. The main events are: the fusion of myoblasts to form myotubes that increase in size by further fusion to them of myoblasts, the formation of myofibrils within their cytoplasm and the establishment of functional neuromuscular junctions with motor neurons. At this stage they can be regarded as mature muscle fibers.
GO:1900120	regulation of receptor binding. regulation of receptor ligand. Any process that modulates the frequency, rate or extent of a protein or other molecule binding to a receptor.
GO:0022900	electron transport chain. A process in which a series of electron carriers operate together to transfer electrons from donors to any of several different terminal electron acceptors.
GO:0090200	positive regulation of release of cytochrome c from mitochondria. Any process that increases the rate, frequency or extent of release of cytochrome c from mitochondria, the process in which cytochrome c is enabled to move from the mitochondrial intermembrane space into the cytosol, which is an early step in apoptosis and leads to caspase activation.
GO:0045931	positive regulation of mitotic cell cycle. activation of progression through mitotic cell cycle. positive regulation of mitotic cell cycle progression. positive regulation of progression through mitotic cell cycle. stimulation of progression through mitotic cell cycle. up regulation of progression through mitotic cell cycle. up-regulation of progression through mitotic cell cycle. upregulation of progression through mitotic cell cycle. Any process that activates or increases the rate or extent of progression through the mitotic cell cycle.
GO:0045785	positive regulation of cell adhesion. activation of cell adhesion. stimulation of cell adhesion. up regulation of cell adhesion. up-regulation of cell adhesion. upregulation of cell adhesion. Any process that activates or increases the frequency, rate or extent of cell adhesion.
GO:0048546	digestive tract morphogenesis. alimentary canal morphogenesis. digestive tube morphogenesis. gastrointestinal tract morphogenesis. gut morphogenesis. intestinal morphogenesis. The process in which the anatomical structures of the digestive tract are generated and organized. The digestive tract is the anatomical structure through which food passes and is processed.
GO:0007173	epidermal growth factor receptor signaling pathway. EGF receptor signaling pathway. EGF receptor signalling pathway. EGFR signaling pathway. epidermal growth factor receptor signalling pathway. ERBB1 signaling pathway. receptor tyrosine-protein kinase erbB-1 signaling pathway. The series of molecular signals initiated by binding of a ligand to the tyrosine kinase receptor EGFR (ERBB1) on the surface of a cell. The pathway ends with regulation of a downstream cellular process, e.g. transcription.
GO:0051641	cellular localization. cellular localisation. establishment and maintenance of cellular localization. establishment and maintenance of localization in cell or cell membrane. intracellular localization. localization within cell. single organism cellular localization. single-organism cellular localization. A cellular localization process whereby a substance or cellular entity, such as a protein complex or organelle, is transported to, and/or maintained in, a specific location within a cell including the localization of substances or cellular entities to the cell membrane.
GO:1901607	alpha-amino acid biosynthetic process. alpha-amino acid anabolism. alpha-amino acid biosynthesis. alpha-amino acid formation. alpha-amino acid synthesis. The chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the formation of an alpha-amino acid.
GO:0070076	histone lysine demethylation. The modification of a histone by the removal of a methyl group from a lysine residue.
GO:0048545	response to steroid hormone. response to steroid hormone stimulus. Any process that results in a change in state or activity of a cell or an organism (in terms of movement, secretion, enzyme production, gene expression, etc.) as a result of a steroid hormone stimulus.
GO:0007040	lysosome organization. lysosome organisation. lysosome organization and biogenesis. A process that is carried out at the cellular level which results in the assembly, arrangement of constituent parts, or disassembly of a lysosome. A lysosome is a cytoplasmic, membrane-bounded organelle that is found in most animal cells and that contains a variety of hydrolases.
GO:0051150	regulation of smooth muscle cell differentiation. Any process that modulates the frequency, rate or extent of smooth muscle cell differentiation.
GO:0034613	protein localization. asymmetric protein localisation. asymmetric protein localization. cellular protein localisation. cellular protein localization. channel localizer activity. establishment and maintenance of asymmetric protein localization. establishment and maintenance of protein localization. protein localisation. Any process in which a protein is transported to, or maintained in, a specific location.
GO:0019320	hexose catabolic process. hexose breakdown. hexose catabolism. hexose degradation. The chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the breakdown of hexose, any monosaccharide with a chain of six carbon atoms in the molecule.
GO:0048812	neuron projection morphogenesis. neurite biosynthesis. neurite formation. neurite growth. neurite morphogenesis. The process in which the anatomical structures of a neuron projection are generated and organized. A neuron projection is any process extending from a neural cell, such as axons or dendrites.
GO:0032205	negative regulation of telomere maintenance. down regulation of telomere maintenance. down-regulation of telomere maintenance. downregulation of telomere maintenance. inhibition of telomere maintenance. Any process that stops, prevents, or reduces the frequency, rate or extent of a process that affects and monitors the activity of telomeric proteins and the length of telomeric DNA.
GO:0006367	transcription initiation at RNA polymerase II promoter. transcription initiation from Pol II promoter. transcription initiation from RNA polymerase II promoter. A transcription initiation process that takes place at a RNA polymerase II gene promoter. Messenger RNAs (mRNA) genes, as well as some non-coding RNAs, are transcribed by RNA polymerase II.
GO:0022618	ribonucleoprotein complex assembly. protein-RNA complex assembly. RNA-protein complex assembly. RNP complex assembly. The aggregation, arrangement and bonding together of proteins and RNA molecules to form a ribonucleoprotein complex.
GO:0090314	positive regulation of protein targeting to membrane. Any process that increases the frequency, rate or extent of the process of directing proteins towards a membrane, usually using signals contained within the protein.
GO:0010639	negative regulation of organelle organization. negative regulation of organelle organisation. negative regulation of organelle organization and biogenesis. Any process that decreases the frequency, rate or extent of a process involved in the formation, arrangement of constituent parts, or disassembly of an organelle.
GO:0046777	protein autophosphorylation. protein amino acid autophosphorylation. The phosphorylation by a protein of one or more of its own amino acid residues (cis-autophosphorylation), or residues on an identical protein (trans-autophosphorylation).
GO:0071407	cellular response to organic cyclic compound. cellular response to organic cyclic substance. Any process that results in a change in state or activity of a cell (in terms of movement, secretion, enzyme production, gene expression, etc.) as a result of an organic cyclic compound stimulus.
GO:0051489	regulation of filopodium assembly. regulation of filopodia biosynthesis. regulation of filopodia formation. regulation of filopodium formation. Any process that modulates the frequency, rate or extent of the assembly of a filopodium, a thin, stiff protrusion extended by the leading edge of a motile cell such as a crawling fibroblast or amoeba, or an axonal growth cone.
GO:2000649	regulation of sodium ion transmembrane transporter activity. regulation of sodium transporter activity. Any process that modulates the frequency, rate or extent of sodium ion transmembrane transporter activity.
GO:0070230	positive regulation of lymphocyte apoptotic process. activation of lymphocyte apoptosis. positive regulation of lymphocyte apoptosis. stimulation of lymphocyte apoptosis. up regulation of lymphocyte apoptosis. up-regulation of lymphocyte apoptosis. upregulation of lymphocyte apoptosis. Any process that activates or increases the frequency, rate or extent of lymphocyte death by apoptotic process.
GO:0019915	lipid storage. lipid retention. lipid sequestering. lipid sequestration. retention of lipids. sequestering of lipids. sequestration of lipid. sequestration of lipids. storage of lipids. The accumulation and maintenance in cells or tissues of lipids, compounds soluble in organic solvents but insoluble or sparingly soluble in aqueous solvents. Lipid reserves can be accumulated during early developmental stages for mobilization and utilization at later stages of development.
GO:0019216	regulation of lipid metabolic process. regulation of lipid metabolism. Any process that modulates the frequency, rate or extent of the chemical reactions and pathways involving lipids.
GO:0061050	regulation of cell growth involved in cardiac muscle cell development. Any process that modulates the rate, frequency, or extent of the growth of a cardiac muscle cell, where growth contributes to the progression of the cell over time from its initial formation to its mature state.
GO:0050807	regulation of synapse organization. regulation of synapse organisation. regulation of synapse organization and biogenesis. regulation of synapse structure. Any process that modulates the physical form of a synapse, the junction between a neuron and a target (neuron, muscle, or secretory cell).
GO:0051649	establishment of localization in cell. establishment of cellular localization. establishment of intracellular localization. establishment of localisation in cell. establishment of localization within cell. positioning within cell. Any process, occuring in a cell, that localizes a substance or cellular component. This may occur via movement, tethering or selective degradation.
GO:2001233	regulation of apoptotic signaling pathway. regulation of apoptotic signalling pathway. Any process that modulates the frequency, rate or extent of apoptotic signaling pathway.
GO:0003015	heart process. cardiac process. A circulatory system process carried out by the heart. The heart is a hollow, muscular organ, which, by contracting rhythmically, keeps up the circulation of the blood. The heart is a hollow, muscular organ, which, by contracting rhythmically, keeps up the circulation of the blood.
GO:0009583	detection of light stimulus. detection of light. perception of light. The series of events in which a light stimulus (in the form of photons) is received and converted into a molecular signal.
GO:0045936	negative regulation of phosphate metabolic process. down regulation of phosphate metabolic process. down-regulation of phosphate metabolic process. downregulation of phosphate metabolic process. inhibition of phosphate metabolic process. negative regulation of phosphate metabolism. Any process that stops, prevents, or reduces the frequency, rate or extent of the chemical reactions and pathways involving phosphates.
GO:0009251	glucan catabolic process. glucan breakdown. glucan catabolism. glucan degradation. The chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the breakdown of glucans, polysaccharides consisting only of glucose residues.
GO:0001782	B cell homeostasis. B lymphocyte homeostasis. B-cell homeostasis. B-lymphocyte homeostasis. The process of regulating the proliferation and elimination of B cells such that the total number of B cells within a whole or part of an organism is stable over time in the absence of an outside stimulus.
GO:0072678	T cell migration. T lymphocyte migration. T-cell migration. T-lymphocyte migration. The movement of a T cell within or between different tissues and organs of the body.
GO:0048566	embryonic digestive tract development. The process whose specific outcome is the progression of the gut over time, from its formation to the mature structure during embryonic development. The gut is the region of the digestive tract extending from the beginning of the intestines to the anus.
GO:0010661	positive regulation of muscle cell apoptotic process. positive regulation of muscle cell apoptosis. Any process that increases the rate or frequency of muscle cell apoptotic process, a form of programmed cell death induced by external or internal signals that trigger the activity of proteolytic caspases whose actions dismantle a muscle cell and result in its death.
GO:1902402	mitotic DNA damage checkpoint signaling. intracellular signal transduction pathway involved in mitotic DNA damage checkpoint. intracellular signaling cascade involved in mitotic DNA damage checkpoint. intracellular signaling pathway involved in mitotic DNA damage checkpoint. mitotic DNA damage checkpoint. signal transduction involved in mitotic DNA damage checkpoint. A signal transduction process involved in mitotic DNA damage checkpoint.
GO:0031062	positive regulation of histone methylation. activation of histone methylation. stimulation of histone methylation. up regulation of histone methylation. up-regulation of histone methylation. upregulation of histone methylation. Any process that activates or increases the frequency, rate or extent of the covalent addition of methyl groups to histones.
GO:0045937	positive regulation of phosphate metabolic process. activation of phosphate metabolic process. positive regulation of phosphate metabolism. stimulation of phosphate metabolic process. up regulation of phosphate metabolic process. up-regulation of phosphate metabolic process. upregulation of phosphate metabolic process. Any process that activates or increases the frequency, rate or extent of the chemical reactions and pathways involving phosphates.
GO:0070507	regulation of microtubule cytoskeleton organization. regulation of microtubule cytoskeleton organisation. regulation of microtubule dynamics. Any process that modulates the frequency, rate or extent of the formation, arrangement of constituent parts, or disassembly of cytoskeletal structures comprising microtubules and their associated proteins.
GO:0001960	negative regulation of cytokine-mediated signaling pathway. down regulation of cytokine mediated signaling pathway. down-regulation of cytokine mediated signaling pathway. downregulation of cytokine mediated signaling pathway. inhibition of cytokine mediated signaling pathway. negative regulation of cytokine and chemokine mediated signaling pathway. negative regulation of cytokine mediated signaling pathway. negative regulation of cytokine mediated signalling pathway. Any process that stops, prevents, or reduces the frequency, rate or extent of the cytokine mediated signaling pathway.
GO:0006119	oxidative phosphorylation. respiratory-chain phosphorylation. The phosphorylation of ADP to ATP that accompanies the oxidation of a metabolite through the operation of the respiratory chain. Oxidation of compounds establishes a proton gradient across the membrane, providing the energy for ATP synthesis.
GO:0045861	negative regulation of proteolysis. down regulation of proteolysis. down-regulation of proteolysis. downregulation of proteolysis. inhibition of proteolysis. negative regulation of peptidolysis. Any process that stops, prevents, or reduces the frequency, rate or extent of the hydrolysis of a peptide bond or bonds within a protein.
GO:1901701	cellular response to oxygen-containing compound. cellular response to oxygen molecular entity. Any process that results in a change in state or activity of a cell (in terms of movement, secretion, enzyme production, gene expression, etc.) as a result of an oxygen-containing compound stimulus.
GO:0048146	positive regulation of fibroblast proliferation. activation of fibroblast proliferation. stimulation of fibroblast proliferation. up regulation of fibroblast proliferation. up-regulation of fibroblast proliferation. upregulation of fibroblast proliferation. Any process that activates or increases the frequency, rate or extent of multiplication or reproduction of fibroblast cells.
GO:0042446	hormone biosynthetic process. hormone anabolism. hormone biosynthesis. hormone formation. hormone synthesis. The chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the formation of any hormone, naturally occurring substances secreted by specialized cells that affects the metabolism or behavior of other cells possessing functional receptors for the hormone.
GO:0000209	protein polyubiquitination. polyubiquitin. protein polyubiquitinylation. protein polyubiquitylation. Addition of multiple ubiquitin groups to a protein, forming a ubiquitin chain.
GO:0006836	neurotransmitter transport. sodium:neurotransmitter transport. The directed movement of a neurotransmitter into, out of or within a cell, or between cells, by means of some agent such as a transporter or pore. Neurotransmitters are any chemical substance that is capable of transmitting (or inhibiting the transmission of) a nerve impulse from a neuron to another cell.
GO:0051709	regulation of killing of cells of another organism. modulation by organism of apoptotic process in other organism involved in symbiotic interaction. modulation of programmed cell death in other organism. modulation of programmed cell death in other organism involved in symbiotic interaction. regulation of killing of cells of other organism. Any process that modulates the frequency, rate or extent of the killing by an organism of cells in another organism.
GO:0019079	viral genome replication. sigma virus replication. viral replication. Any process involved directly in viral genome replication, including viral nucleotide metabolism.
GO:0007568	aging. ageing. A developmental process that is a deterioration and loss of function over time. Aging includes loss of functions such as resistance to disease, homeostasis, and fertility, as well as wear and tear. Aging includes cellular senescence, but is more inclusive. May precede death and may succeed developmental maturation (GO:0021700).
GO:0032869	cellular response to insulin stimulus. Any process that results in a change in state or activity of a cell (in terms of movement, secretion, enzyme production, gene expression, etc.) as a result of an insulin stimulus. Insulin is a polypeptide hormone produced by the islets of Langerhans of the pancreas in mammals, and by the homologous organs of other organisms.
GO:0033628	regulation of cell adhesion mediated by integrin. regulation of cell adhesion mediated by integrin complex. Any process that modulates the frequency, rate, or extent of cell adhesion mediated by integrin.
GO:0044262	cellular carbohydrate metabolic process. cellular carbohydrate metabolism. main pathways of carbohydrate metabolic process. main pathways of carbohydrate metabolism. The chemical reactions and pathways involving carbohydrates, any of a group of organic compounds based of the general formula Cx(H2O)y, as carried out by individual cells.
GO:0009799	specification of symmetry. determination of symmetry. The establishment of an organism's body plan or part of an organism such that a similar arrangement in form and relationship of parts around a common axis, or around each side of a plane is created.
GO:1904646	cellular response to amyloid-beta. cellular response to beta-amyloid. cellular response to beta-amyloids. Any process that results in a change in state or activity of a cell (in terms of movement, secretion, enzyme production, gene expression, etc.) as a result of a amyloid-beta stimulus.
GO:0010628	positive regulation of gene expression. Any process that increases the frequency, rate or extent of gene expression. Gene expression is the process in which a gene's coding sequence is converted into a mature gene product (protein or RNA).
GO:0072657	protein localization to membrane. protein localisation in membrane. protein localization in membrane. A process in which a protein is transported to, or maintained in, a specific location in a membrane.
GO:0010648	negative regulation of cell communication. Any process that decreases the frequency, rate or extent of cell communication. Cell communication is the process that mediates interactions between a cell and its surroundings. Encompasses interactions such as signaling or attachment between one cell and another cell, between a cell and an extracellular matrix, or between a cell and any other aspect of its environment.
GO:0046827	positive regulation of protein export from nucleus. activation of protein export from nucleus. positive regulation of protein export from cell nucleus. positive regulation of protein export out of nucleus. positive regulation of protein transport from nucleus to cytoplasm. positive regulation of protein-nucleus export. stimulation of protein export from nucleus. up regulation of protein export from nucleus. up-regulation of protein export from nucleus. upregulation of protein export from nucleus. Any process that activates or increases the frequency, rate or extent of directed movement of proteins from the nucleus into the cytoplasm.
GO:0120034	positive regulation of plasma membrane bounded cell projection assembly. Any process that activates or increases the frequency, rate or extent of plasma membrane bounded cell projection assembly.
GO:0061025	membrane fusion. cellular membrane fusion. single-organism membrane fusion. The membrane organization process that joins two lipid bilayers to form a single membrane.
GO:0050808	synapse organization. synapse development. synapse morphogenesis. synapse organisation. synapse organization and biogenesis. A process that is carried out at the cellular level which results in the assembly, arrangement of constituent parts, or disassembly of a synapse, the junction between a neuron and a target (neuron, muscle, or secretory cell).
GO:0060306	regulation of membrane repolarization. Any process that modulates the establishment or extent of a membrane potential in the polarizing direction towards the resting potential, usually from positive to negative.
GO:0071312	cellular response to alkaloid. Any process that results in a change in state or activity of a cell (in terms of movement, secretion, enzyme production, gene expression, etc.) as a result of an alkaloid stimulus. Alkaloids are a large group of nitrogenous substances found in naturally in plants, many of which have extracts that are pharmacologically active.
GO:2000826	regulation of heart morphogenesis. regulation of cardiac morphogenesis. Any process that modulates the frequency, rate or extent of heart morphogenesis.
GO:0006482	protein demethylation. protein amino acid demethylation. The removal of a methyl group, from a protein amino acid. A methyl group is derived from methane by the removal of a hydrogen atom.
GO:0098754	detoxification. Any process that reduces or removes the toxicity of a toxic substance. These may include transport of the toxic substance away from sensitive areas and to compartments or complexes whose purpose is sequestration of the toxic substance.
GO:2000515	negative regulation of CD4-positive, alpha-beta T cell activation. Any process that stops, prevents or reduces the frequency, rate or extent of CD4-positive, alpha-beta T cell activation.
GO:0046164	alcohol catabolic process. alcohol breakdown. alcohol catabolism. alcohol degradation. The chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the breakdown of alcohols, any of a class of compounds containing one or more hydroxyl groups attached to a saturated carbon atom.
GO:1901990	regulation of mitotic cell cycle phase transition. mitotic cell cycle control. Any process that modulates the frequency, rate or extent of mitotic cell cycle phase transition.
GO:0035404	obsolete histone-serine phosphorylation. histone serine phosphorylation. OBSOLETE. The modification of histones by addition of a phosphate group to a serine residue.
GO:1901796	regulation of signal transduction by p53 class mediator. Any process that modulates the frequency, rate or extent of signal transduction by p53 class mediator.
GO:0044265	cellular macromolecule catabolic process. cellular biopolymer catabolic process. cellular macromolecule breakdown. cellular macromolecule catabolism. cellular macromolecule degradation. The chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the breakdown of a macromolecule, any large molecule including proteins, nucleic acids and carbohydrates, as carried out by individual cells.
GO:0032870	cellular response to hormone stimulus. Any process that results in a change in state or activity of a cell (in terms of movement, secretion, enzyme production, gene expression, etc.) as a result of a hormone stimulus.
GO:0046886	positive regulation of hormone biosynthetic process. activation of hormone biosynthetic process. positive regulation of hormone anabolism. positive regulation of hormone biosynthesis. positive regulation of hormone formation. positive regulation of hormone synthesis. stimulation of hormone biosynthetic process. up regulation of hormone biosynthetic process. up-regulation of hormone biosynthetic process. upregulation of hormone biosynthetic process. Any process that activates or increases the frequency, rate or extent of the chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the formation of hormones.
GO:0032462	regulation of protein homooligomerization. Any process that modulates the frequency, rate or extent of protein homooligomerization.
GO:0060045	positive regulation of cardiac muscle cell proliferation. positive regulation of heart muscle cell proliferation. Any process that activates or increases the frequency, rate or extent of cardiac muscle cell proliferation.
GO:0071868	cellular response to monoamine stimulus. Any process that results in a change in state or activity of a cell (in terms of movement, secretion, enzyme production, gene expression, etc.) as a result of a monoamine stimulus. A monoamine is any of a group of molecular messengers that contain one amino group that is connected to an aromatic ring by ethylene group (-CH2-CH2-). Monoamines are derived from the aromatic amino acids phenylalanine, tyrosine, histidine and tryptophan.
GO:0007219	Notch signaling pathway. N signaling pathway. N signalling pathway. Notch receptor signaling pathway. Notch receptor signalling pathway. Notch signalling pathway. Notch-receptor signaling pathway. Notch-receptor signalling pathway. The series of molecular signals initiated by an extracellular ligand binding to the receptor Notch on the surface of a target cell, and ending with the regulation of a downstream cellular process, e.g. transcription.
GO:0001755	neural crest cell migration. The characteristic movement of cells from the dorsal ridge of the neural tube to a variety of locations in a vertebrate embryo.
GO:1900273	positive regulation of long-term synaptic potentiation. activation of long-term potentiation. activation of long-term synaptic potentiation. activation of LTP. positive regulation of long-term potentiation. positive regulation of LTP. up regulation of long-term potentiation. up regulation of long-term synaptic potentiation. up regulation of LTP. up-regulation of long-term potentiation. up-regulation of long-term synaptic potentiation. up-regulation of LTP. upregulation of long-term potentiation. upregulation of long-term synaptic potentiation. upregulation of LTP. Any process that activates or increases the frequency, rate or extent of long-term synaptic potentiation.
GO:0050708	regulation of protein secretion. Any process that modulates the frequency, rate or extent of the controlled release of a protein from a cell.
GO:1903038	negative regulation of leukocyte cell-cell adhesion. down regulation of leukocyte adhesion. down regulation of leukocyte cell adhesion. down regulation of leukocyte cell-cell adhesion. down-regulation of leukocyte adhesion. down-regulation of leukocyte cell adhesion. down-regulation of leukocyte cell-cell adhesion. downregulation of leukocyte adhesion. downregulation of leukocyte cell adhesion. downregulation of leukocyte cell-cell adhesion. inhibition of leukocyte adhesion. inhibition of leukocyte cell adhesion. inhibition of leukocyte cell-cell adhesion. negative regulation of leukocyte adhesion. negative regulation of leukocyte cell adhesion. Any process that stops, prevents or reduces the frequency, rate or extent of leukocyte cell-cell adhesion.
GO:0070232	regulation of T cell apoptotic process. regulation of programmed cell death of T cells by apoptosis. regulation of T cell apoptosis. regulation of T lymphocyte apoptosis. regulation of T-cell apoptosis. regulation of T-lymphocyte apoptosis. Any process that modulates the occurrence or rate of T cell death by apoptotic process.
GO:0006954	inflammatory response. inflammation. The immediate defensive reaction (by vertebrate tissue) to infection or injury caused by chemical or physical agents. The process is characterized by local vasodilation, extravasation of plasma into intercellular spaces and accumulation of white blood cells and macrophages.
GO:0035813	regulation of renal sodium excretion. Any process that modulates the amount of sodium excreted in urine over a unit of time.
GO:0097192	extrinsic apoptotic signaling pathway in absence of ligand. dependence receptor signaling pathway. extrinsic apoptosis in absence of ligand. extrinsic apoptotic signalling pathway in absence of ligand. The series of molecular signals in which a signal is conveyed from the cell surface to trigger the apoptotic death of a cell. The pathway starts with withdrawal of a ligand from a cell surface receptor, and ends when the execution phase of apoptosis is triggered.
GO:0001754	eye photoreceptor cell differentiation. The process in which a relatively unspecialized cell acquires the specialized features of a photoreceptor cell, as found in the eye, the primary visual organ of most organisms.
GO:0060828	regulation of canonical Wnt signaling pathway. catenin import into nucleus. regulation of canonical Wnt receptor signaling pathway. regulation of canonical Wnt receptor signalling pathway. regulation of canonical Wnt-activated signaling pathway. regulation of catenin import into nucleus. regulation of catenin protein nuclear translocation. regulation of Wnt receptor signaling pathway through beta-catenin. Any process that modulates the rate, frequency, or extent of the Wnt signaling pathway through beta-catenin, the series of molecular signals initiated by binding of a Wnt protein to a frizzled family receptor on the surface of the target cell, followed by propagation of the signal via beta-catenin, and ending with a change in transcription of target genes.
GO:0045600	positive regulation of fat cell differentiation. activation of fat cell differentiation. positive regulation of adipocyte cell differentiation. positive regulation of adipocyte differentiation. stimulation of fat cell differentiation. up regulation of fat cell differentiation. up-regulation of fat cell differentiation. upregulation of fat cell differentiation. Any process that activates or increases the frequency, rate or extent of adipocyte differentiation.
GO:0009218	pyrimidine ribonucleotide metabolic process. pyrimidine ribonucleotide metabolism. The chemical reactions and pathways involving a pyrimidine ribonucleotide, a compound consisting of nucleoside (a pyrimidine base linked to a ribose sugar) esterified with a phosphate group at either the 3' or 5'-hydroxyl group of the sugar.
GO:2000243	positive regulation of reproductive process. Any process that activates or increases the frequency, rate or extent of reproductive process.
GO:0033044	regulation of chromosome organization. regulation of chromosome organisation. regulation of chromosome organization and biogenesis. Any process that modulates the frequency, rate or extent of a process involved in the formation, arrangement of constituent parts, or disassembly of a chromosome.
GO:0051055	negative regulation of lipid biosynthetic process. down regulation of lipid biosynthetic process. down-regulation of lipid biosynthetic process. downregulation of lipid biosynthetic process. inhibition of lipid biosynthetic process. negative regulation of lipid anabolism. negative regulation of lipid biosynthesis. negative regulation of lipid formation. negative regulation of lipid synthesis. negative regulation of lipogenesis. Any process that stops, prevents, or reduces the frequency, rate or extent of the chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the formation of lipids.
GO:0023058	adaptation of signaling pathway. adaptation of signalling pathway. The regulation of a signal transduction pathway in response to a stimulus upon prolonged exposure to that stimulus.
GO:0019048	modulation by virus of host process. disruption by virus of host cell. host-virus interaction. modulation by virus of host anatomical structure or process. modulation by virus of host anatomy or process. modulation by virus of host morphology or physiology. viral interaction with host. viral-host process. virus-host interaction. virus-host process. The process in which a virus effects a change in the structure or processes of its host organism.
GO:0006464	protein modification process. cellular protein modification process. process resulting in protein modification. protein modification. The covalent alteration of one or more amino acids occurring in proteins, peptides and nascent polypeptides (co-translational, post-translational modifications). Includes the modification of charged tRNAs that are destined to occur in a protein (pre-translation modification).
GO:0032720	negative regulation of tumor necrosis factor production. down regulation of tumor necrosis factor production. down-regulation of tumor necrosis factor production. downregulation of tumor necrosis factor production. inhibition of cachectin production. inhibition of tumor necrosis factor production. negative regulation of tumor necrosis factor biosynthetic process. negative regulation of tumor necrosis factor secretion. negative regulation TNF production. negative regulation TNF-alpha production. negative regulation tumor necrosis factor-alpha production. Any process that stops, prevents, or reduces the frequency, rate, or extent of tumor necrosis factor production.
GO:1903707	negative regulation of hemopoiesis. down regulation of blood cell biosynthesis. down regulation of blood cell formation. down regulation of haemopoiesis. down regulation of hematopoiesis. down regulation of hemopoiesis. down-regulation of blood cell biosynthesis. down-regulation of blood cell formation. down-regulation of haemopoiesis. down-regulation of hematopoiesis. down-regulation of hemopoiesis. downregulation of blood cell biosynthesis. downregulation of blood cell formation. downregulation of haemopoiesis. downregulation of hematopoiesis. downregulation of hemopoiesis. inhibition of blood cell biosynthesis. inhibition of blood cell formation. inhibition of haemopoiesis. inhibition of hematopoiesis. inhibition of hemopoiesis. negative regulation of blood cell biosynthesis. negative regulation of blood cell formation. negative regulation of haemopoiesis. negative regulation of hematopoiesis. Any process that stops, prevents or reduces the frequency, rate or extent of hemopoiesis.
GO:0009260	ribonucleotide biosynthetic process. ribonucleotide anabolism. ribonucleotide biosynthesis. ribonucleotide formation. ribonucleotide synthesis. The chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the formation of a ribonucleotide, a compound consisting of ribonucleoside (a base linked to a ribose sugar) esterified with a phosphate group at either the 3' or 5'-hydroxyl group of the sugar.
GO:0000226	microtubule cytoskeleton organization. microtubule cytoskeleton organisation. microtubule cytoskeleton organization and biogenesis. microtubule dynamics. A process that is carried out at the cellular level which results in the assembly, arrangement of constituent parts, or disassembly of cytoskeletal structures comprising microtubules and their associated proteins.
GO:0044819	mitotic G1/S transition checkpoint signaling. mitotic G1/S transition checkpoint. A cell cycle checkpoint that detects and negatively regulates progression from G1 to S phase as part of a mitotic cell cycle.
GO:0046467	membrane lipid biosynthetic process. membrane lipid anabolism. membrane lipid biosynthesis. membrane lipid formation. membrane lipid synthesis. The chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the formation of membrane lipids, any lipid found in or associated with a biological membrane.
GO:0016331	morphogenesis of embryonic epithelium. The process in which the anatomical structures of embryonic epithelia are generated and organized.
GO:0050790	regulation of catalytic activity. regulation of enzyme activity. regulation of metalloenzyme activity. Any process that modulates the activity of an enzyme.
GO:1990138	neuron projection extension. neurite extension. neuron process extension. neuron protrusion extension. neuronal cell projection extension. Long distance growth of a single neuron projection involved in cellular development. A neuron projection is a prolongation or process extending from a nerve cell, e.g. an axon or dendrite.
GO:0006897	endocytosis. endocytic import into cell. nonselective vesicle endocytosis. plasma membrane invagination. vesicle endocytosis. A vesicle-mediated transport process in which cells take up external materials or membrane constituents by the invagination of a small region of the plasma membrane to form a new membrane-bounded vesicle.
GO:0010613	positive regulation of cardiac muscle hypertrophy. Any process that increases the rate, frequency or extent of the enlargement or overgrowth of all or part of the heart due to an increase in size (not length) of individual cardiac muscle fibers, without cell division.
GO:1903530	regulation of secretion by cell. regulation of cellular secretion. Any process that modulates the frequency, rate or extent of secretion by cell.
GO:2000171	negative regulation of dendrite development. Any process that stops, prevents, or reduces the frequency, rate or extent of dendrite development.
GO:0006955	immune response. Any immune system process that functions in the calibrated response of an organism to a potential internal or invasive threat.
GO:0031047	gene silencing by RNA. RNA-mediated gene silencing. A process in which an RNA molecule reduces expression of target genes. This can occur pre-transcriptionally by assembly of heterochromatin and prevention of transcription or co- or post-transcriptionally by targeting RNAs for degradation or by interfering with splicing or translation. This process starts once the inhibitory RNA molecule has been transcribed, and includes processing of the RNA such as cleavage, modifications, transport from the nucleus to the cytoplasm, loading onto the RISC complex, and the effect on transcription or translation.
GO:0060021	roof of mouth development. palatum development. The biological process whose specific outcome is the progression of the roof of the mouth from an initial condition to its mature state. This process begins with the formation of the structure and ends with the mature structure. The roof of the mouth is the partition that separates the nasal and oral cavities.
GO:0055083	monovalent inorganic anion homeostasis. Any process involved in the maintenance of an internal steady state of monovalent inorganic anions within an organism or cell.
GO:0045739	positive regulation of DNA repair. activation of DNA repair. stimulation of DNA repair. up regulation of DNA repair. up-regulation of DNA repair. upregulation of DNA repair. Any process that activates or increases the frequency, rate or extent of DNA repair.
GO:0032088	negative regulation of NF-kappaB transcription factor activity. inhibition of NF-kappaB transcription factor. NF-kappaB inhibitor. Any process that stops, prevents, or reduces the frequency, rate or extent of the activity of the transcription factor NF-kappaB.
GO:0043903	regulation of biological process involved in symbiotic interaction. regulation of interspecies interactions between organisms. regulation of symbiosis, encompassing mutualism through parasitism. regulation of symbiotic process. Any process that modulates the frequency, rate or extent of symbiosis, an interaction between two organisms living together in more or less intimate association.
GO:1901985	positive regulation of protein acetylation. activation of protein acetylation. activation of protein amino acid acetylation. positive regulation of protein amino acid acetylation. up regulation of protein acetylation. up regulation of protein amino acid acetylation. up-regulation of protein acetylation. up-regulation of protein amino acid acetylation. upregulation of protein acetylation. upregulation of protein amino acid acetylation. Any process that activates or increases the frequency, rate or extent of protein acetylation.
GO:0008015	blood circulation. hemolymph circulation. The flow of blood through the body of an animal, enabling the transport of nutrients to the tissues and the removal of waste products.
GO:0046907	intracellular transport. single organism intracellular transport. single-organism intracellular transport. The directed movement of substances within a cell.
GO:0009150	purine ribonucleotide metabolic process. purine ribonucleotide metabolism. The chemical reactions and pathways involving a purine ribonucleotide, a compound consisting of ribonucleoside (a purine base linked to a ribose sugar) esterified with a phosphate group at either the 3' or 5'-hydroxyl group of the sugar.
GO:0034198	cellular response to amino acid starvation. GAAC response. general amino acid control response. Any process that results in a change in state or activity of a cell (in terms of movement, secretion, enzyme production, gene expression, etc.) as a result of deprivation of amino acids.
GO:0045540	regulation of cholesterol biosynthetic process. regulation of cholesterol anabolism. regulation of cholesterol biosynthesis. regulation of cholesterol formation. regulation of cholesterol synthesis. Any process that modulates the frequency, rate or extent of the chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the formation of cholesterol.
GO:0030728	ovulation. The release of a mature ovum/oocyte from an ovary.
GO:1902230	negative regulation of intrinsic apoptotic signaling pathway in response to DNA damage. down regulation of DNA damage response, signal transduction resulting in induction of apoptosis. down regulation of intrinsic apoptotic signaling pathway in response to DNA damage. down-regulation of DNA damage response, signal transduction resulting in induction of apoptosis. down-regulation of intrinsic apoptotic signaling pathway in response to DNA damage. downregulation of DNA damage response, signal transduction resulting in induction of apoptosis. downregulation of intrinsic apoptotic signaling pathway in response to DNA damage. inhibition of DNA damage response, signal transduction resulting in induction of apoptosis. inhibition of intrinsic apoptotic signaling pathway in response to DNA damage. negative regulation of DNA damage response, signal transduction resulting in induction of apoptosis. Any process that stops, prevents or reduces the frequency, rate or extent of intrinsic apoptotic signaling pathway in response to DNA damage.
GO:0050801	ion homeostasis. electrolyte homeostasis. negative regulation of crystal formation. regulation of ion homeostasis. Any process involved in the maintenance of an internal steady state of ions within an organism or cell.
GO:2001236	regulation of extrinsic apoptotic signaling pathway. regulation of extrinsic apoptosis. regulation of extrinsic apoptotic signalling pathway. Any process that modulates the frequency, rate or extent of extrinsic apoptotic signaling pathway.
GO:0001504	neurotransmitter uptake. neurotransmitter import. neurotransmitter import into glial cell. neurotransmitter import into neuron. neurotransmitter recycling. The directed movement of neurotransmitters into neurons or glial cells. This process leads to inactivation and recycling of neurotransmitters.
GO:0031347	regulation of defense response. Any process that modulates the frequency, rate or extent of a defense response.
GO:0051000	positive regulation of nitric-oxide synthase activity. activation of nitric-oxide synthase activity. nitric-oxide synthase activator. NOS activator. positive regulation of NOS activity. stimulation of nitric-oxide synthase activity. up regulation of nitric-oxide synthase activity. up-regulation of nitric-oxide synthase activity. upregulation of nitric-oxide synthase activity. Any process that activates or increases the activity of the enzyme nitric-oxide synthase.
GO:0090050	positive regulation of cell migration involved in sprouting angiogenesis. Any process that increases the frequency, rate or extent of cell migration involved in sprouting angiogenesis. Cell migration involved in sprouting angiogenesis is the orderly movement of endothelial cells into the extracellular matrix in order to form new blood vessels contributing to the process of sprouting angiogenesis.
GO:0045765	regulation of angiogenesis. Any process that modulates the frequency, rate or extent of angiogenesis.
GO:2001056	positive regulation of cysteine-type endopeptidase activity. positive regulation of lysosomal cysteine-type endopeptidase. positive regulation of thiol endopeptidase activity. Any process that activates or increases the frequency, rate or extent of cysteine-type endopeptidase activity.
GO:1903831	signal transduction involved in cellular response to ammonium ion. signaling cascade involved in cellular response to ammonium ion. signaling pathway involved in cellular response to ammonium ion. signalling cascade involved in cellular response to ammonium ion. signalling pathway involved in cellular response to ammonium ion. Any signal transduction that is involved in cellular response to ammonium ion.
GO:0043470	regulation of carbohydrate catabolic process. Any process that modulates the frequency, rate, or extent of the chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the breakdown of carbohydrates.
GO:0009887	animal organ morphogenesis. histogenesis and organogenesis. Morphogenesis of an animal organ. An organ is defined as a tissue or set of tissues that work together to perform a specific function or functions. Morphogenesis is the process in which anatomical structures are generated and organized. Organs are commonly observed as visibly distinct structures, but may also exist as loosely associated clusters of cells that work together to perform a specific function or functions.
GO:0060048	cardiac muscle contraction. heart muscle contraction. Muscle contraction of cardiac muscle tissue.
GO:0009968	negative regulation of signal transduction. down regulation of signal transduction. down-regulation of signal transduction. downregulation of signal transduction. inhibition of signal transduction. negative regulation of signaling pathway. negative regulation of signalling pathway. Any process that stops, prevents, or reduces the frequency, rate or extent of signal transduction.
GO:0007389	pattern specification process. pattern biosynthesis. pattern formation. Any developmental process that results in the creation of defined areas or spaces within an organism to which cells respond and eventually are instructed to differentiate.
GO:0043624	protein-containing complex disassembly. cellular macromolecule complex disassembly. cellular protein complex disassembly. macromolecule complex disassembly. protein complex disassembly. The disaggregation of a protein-containing macromolecular complex into its constituent components.
GO:0002443	leukocyte mediated immunity. cell-mediated immune response. cellular immune response. immune cell effector process. immune cell mediated immunity. leucocyte immune effector process. leucocyte mediated immunity. leukocyte immune effector process. Any process involved in the carrying out of an immune response by a leukocyte.
GO:1902600	proton transmembrane transport. ATP hydrolysis coupled proton transport. hydrogen ion transmembrane transport. hydrogen ion transport. hydrogen transmembrane transport. hydrogen transport. passive proton transport, down the electrochemical gradient. proton transport. The directed movement of a proton across a membrane.
GO:0034401	obsolete chromatin organization involved in regulation of transcription. activation of global transcription from RNA polymerase II promoter by histone modification. activation of transcription from RNA polymerase II promoter by histone modification. establishment or maintenance of chromatin architecture during transcription. positive regulation of gene-specific transcription from RNA polymerase II promoter by histone modification. positive regulation of global transcription from Pol II promoter by histone modification. positive regulation of transcription from Pol II promoter by histone modification. positive regulation of transcription from RNA polymerase II promoter by histone modification. positive regulation of transcription from RNA polymerase II promoter, global by histone modification. regulation of gene-specific transcription from RNA polymerase II promoter by histone modification. regulation of global transcription from Pol II promoter by histone modification. regulation of transcription by chromatin organisation. regulation of transcription by chromatin organization. regulation of transcription from Pol II promoter by histone modification. regulation of transcription from RNA polymerase II promoter by histone modification. regulation of transcription from RNA polymerase II promoter, global by histone modification. stimulation of global transcription from RNA polymerase II promoter by histone modification. stimulation of transcription from RNA polymerase II promoter by histone modification. up regulation of global transcription from RNA polymerase II promoter by histone modification. up regulation of transcription from RNA polymerase II promoter by histone modification. up-regulation of global transcription from RNA polymerase II promoter by histone modification. up-regulation of transcription from RNA polymerase II promoter by histone modification. upregulation of global transcription from RNA polymerase II promoter by histone modification. upregulation of transcription from RNA polymerase II promoter by histone modification. OBSOLETE. Any cellular process that results in the specification, formation or maintenance of the physical structure of eukaryotic chromatin that modulates the rate, frequency or extent of DNA-dependent transcription.
GO:0050912	detection of chemical stimulus involved in sensory perception of taste. perception of taste, detection of chemical stimulus. perception of taste, sensory detection of chemical stimulus. perception of taste, sensory transduction of chemical stimulus. sensory detection of chemical stimulus during perception of taste. sensory detection of taste. sensory transduction of chemical stimulus during perception of taste. sensory transduction of taste. taste perception. The series of events involved in the perception of taste in which a gustatory chemical stimulus is received and converted into a molecular signal.
GO:0035902	response to immobilization stress. response to immobilisation stress. response to restraint stress. Any process that results in a change in state or activity of a cell or an organism (in terms of movement, secretion, enzyme production, gene expression, etc.) as a result of being rendered immobile.
GO:0071466	cellular response to xenobiotic stimulus. cellular response to drug. Any process that results in a change in state or activity of a cell (in terms of movement, secretion, enzyme production, gene expression, etc.) as a result of a stimulus from a xenobiotic, a compound foreign to the organism exposed to it. It may be synthesized by another organism (like ampicilin) or it can be a synthetic chemical.
GO:0007189	adenylate cyclase-activating G protein-coupled receptor signaling pathway. activation of adenylate cyclase activity by G-protein signaling pathway. activation of adenylate cyclase activity involved in G-protein signaling. adenylate cyclase-activating GPCR signaling pathway. G protein signaling, adenylate cyclase activating pathway. G protein signaling, adenylyl cyclase activating pathway. G protein signalling, adenylate cyclase activating pathway. G protein signalling, adenylyl cyclase activating pathway. G-protein signaling, adenylate cyclase activating pathway. G-protein signaling, adenylyl cyclase activating pathway. G-protein signalling, adenylate cyclase activating pathway. G-protein signalling, adenylyl cyclase activating pathway. GPCR signaling pathway via activation of adenylate cyclase. GPCR signaling pathway via activation of adenylate cyclase activity. positive regulation of adenylate cyclase activity by G-protein signaling pathway. positive regulation of adenylate cyclase activity by G-protein signalling pathway. positive regulation of adenylate cyclase activity involved in G-protein coupled receptor signaling pathway. A G protein-coupled receptor signaling pathway in which the signal is transmitted via the activation of adenylyl cyclase activity and a subsequent increase in the intracellular concentration of cyclic AMP (cAMP).
GO:0071415	cellular response to purine-containing compound. cellular response to purine. Any process that results in a change in state or activity of a cell (in terms of movement, secretion, enzyme production, gene expression, etc.) as a result of a purine-containing compound stimulus.
GO:0045839	negative regulation of mitotic nuclear division. down regulation of mitosis. down-regulation of mitosis. downregulation of mitosis. inhibition of mitosis. negative regulation of mitosis. Any process that stops, prevents or reduces the rate or extent of mitosis. Mitosis is the division of the eukaryotic cell nucleus to produce two daughter nuclei that, usually, contain the identical chromosome complement to their mother.
GO:0046475	glycerophospholipid catabolic process. glycerophospholipid breakdown. glycerophospholipid catabolism. glycerophospholipid degradation. phosphoglyceride catabolic process. phosphoglyceride catabolism. The chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the breakdown of glycerophospholipids, any derivative of glycerophosphate that contains at least one O-acyl, O-alkyl, or O-alkenyl group attached to the glycerol residue.
GO:0001569	branching involved in blood vessel morphogenesis. patterning of blood vessels. The process of coordinated growth and sprouting of blood vessels giving rise to the organized vascular system.
GO:0009953	dorsal/ventral pattern formation. dorsal-ventral pattern formation. dorsal/ventral pattern specification. dorsoventral pattern formation. The regionalization process in which the areas along the dorsal/ventral axis are established that will lead to differences in cell differentiation. The dorsal/ventral axis is defined by a line that runs orthogonal to both the anterior/posterior and left/right axes. The dorsal end is defined by the upper or back side of an organism. The ventral end is defined by the lower or front side of an organism.
GO:0090207	regulation of triglyceride metabolic process. Any process that modulates the frequency, rate or extent of the chemical reactions and pathways involving triglyceride, any triester of glycerol.
GO:0023057	negative regulation of signaling. negative regulation of signaling process. negative regulation of signalling process. Any process that stops, prevents, or reduces the frequency, rate or extent of a signaling process.
GO:0007274	neuromuscular synaptic transmission. The process of synaptic transmission from a neuron to a muscle, across a synapse.
GO:0021766	hippocampus development. hippocampal formation development. The progression of the hippocampus over time from its initial formation until its mature state.
GO:2000249	regulation of actin cytoskeleton reorganization. regulation of actin cytoskeleton remodeling. regulation of actin cytoskeleton reorganisation. Any process that modulates the frequency, rate or extent of actin cytoskeleton reorganization.
GO:0007548	sex differentiation. The establishment of the sex of an organism by physical differentiation.
GO:0045321	leukocyte activation. immune cell activation. leucocyte activation. A change in morphology and behavior of a leukocyte resulting from exposure to a specific antigen, mitogen, cytokine, cellular ligand, or soluble factor.
GO:0018195	peptidyl-arginine modification. The modification of peptidyl-arginine.
GO:0044773	mitotic DNA damage checkpoint signaling. intracellular signal transduction pathway involved in mitotic DNA damage checkpoint. intracellular signaling cascade involved in mitotic DNA damage checkpoint. intracellular signaling pathway involved in mitotic DNA damage checkpoint. mitotic DNA damage checkpoint. signal transduction involved in mitotic DNA damage checkpoint. A signal transduction process involved in mitotic DNA damage checkpoint.
GO:0097028	dendritic cell differentiation. The process in which a precursor cell type acquires the specialized features of a dendritic cell. A dendritic cell is a leukocyte of dendritic lineage specialized in the uptake, processing, and transport of antigens to lymph nodes for the purpose of stimulating an immune response via T cell activation.
GO:0005996	monosaccharide metabolic process. monosaccharide metabolism. The chemical reactions and pathways involving monosaccharides, the simplest carbohydrates. They are polyhydric alcohols containing either an aldehyde or a keto group and between three to ten or more carbon atoms. They form the constitutional repeating units of oligo- and polysaccharides.
GO:0006687	glycosphingolipid metabolic process. glycosphingolipid metabolism. The chemical reactions and pathways involving glycosphingolipids, any compound with residues of sphingoid and at least one monosaccharide.
GO:0098664	G protein-coupled serotonin receptor signaling pathway. G-protein coupled serotonin receptor signaling pathway. The series of molecular signals generated as a consequence of a G protein-coupled serotonin receptor binding to one of its physiological ligands.
GO:0001894	tissue homeostasis. tissue maintenance. A homeostatic process involved in the maintenance of an internal steady state within a defined tissue of an organism, including control of cellular proliferation and death and control of metabolic function.
GO:0050678	regulation of epithelial cell proliferation. Any process that modulates the frequency, rate or extent of epithelial cell proliferation.
GO:0038095	Fc-epsilon receptor signaling pathway. Fc-epsilon receptor signalling pathway. The series of molecular signals initiated by the binding of the Fc portion of immunoglobulin E (IgE) to an Fc-epsilon receptor on the surface of a target cell, and ending with the regulation of a downstream cellular process, e.g. transcription. The Fc portion of an immunoglobulin is its C-terminal constant region.
GO:1900015	regulation of cytokine production involved in inflammatory response. regulation of cytokine production involved in acute inflammatory response. Any process that modulates the frequency, rate or extent of cytokine production involved in inflammatory response.
GO:0009712	catechol-containing compound metabolic process. catechol metabolic process. catechol metabolism. The chemical reactions and pathways involving a compound containing a pyrocatechol (1,2-benzenediol) nucleus or substituent.
GO:1903792	negative regulation of anion transport. down regulation of anion transport. down-regulation of anion transport. downregulation of anion transport. inhibition of anion transport. Any process that stops, prevents or reduces the frequency, rate or extent of anion transport.
GO:0008360	regulation of cell shape. Any process that modulates the surface configuration of a cell.
GO:0071900	regulation of protein serine/threonine kinase activity. Any process that modulates the rate, frequency, or extent of protein serine/threonine kinase activity.
GO:0038110	interleukin-2-mediated signaling pathway. IL-2-mediated signaling pathway. interleukin-2-mediated signalling pathway. The series of molecular signals initiated by interleukin-2 binding to its receptor on the surface of a cell, and ending with the regulation of a downstream cellular process, e.g. transcription.
GO:0034762	regulation of transmembrane transport. regulation of membrane transport. Any process that modulates the frequency, rate or extent of the directed movement of a solute from one side of a membrane to the other.
GO:0032793	positive regulation of CREB transcription factor activity. activation of CREB. activation of CREB transcription factor. CREB activator. Any process that activates or increases the frequency, rate or extent of activity of the transcription factor CREB.
GO:0007435	salivary gland morphogenesis. The process in which the anatomical structures of the salivary gland are generated and organized.
GO:0007517	muscle organ development. The process whose specific outcome is the progression of the muscle over time, from its formation to the mature structure. The muscle is an organ consisting of a tissue made up of various elongated cells that are specialized to contract and thus to produce movement and mechanical work.
GO:0016070	RNA metabolic process. RNA metabolism. The cellular chemical reactions and pathways involving RNA, ribonucleic acid, one of the two main type of nucleic acid, consisting of a long, unbranched macromolecule formed from ribonucleotides joined in 3',5'-phosphodiester linkage.
GO:1901135	carbohydrate derivative metabolic process. carbohydrate derivative metabolism. The chemical reactions and pathways involving carbohydrate derivative.
GO:0019985	translesion synthesis. bypass DNA synthesis. The replication of damaged DNA by synthesis across a lesion in the template strand; a specialized DNA polymerase or replication complex inserts a defined nucleotide across from the lesion which allows DNA synthesis to continue beyond the lesion. This process can be mutagenic depending on the damaged nucleotide and the inserted nucleotide.
GO:0008286	insulin receptor signaling pathway. daf-2 receptor signaling pathway. insulin receptor signalling pathway. The series of molecular signals generated as a consequence of the insulin receptor binding to insulin.
GO:0006476	protein deacetylation. protein amino acid deacetylation. The removal of an acetyl group from a protein amino acid. An acetyl group is CH3CO-, derived from acetic [ethanoic] acid.
GO:0031623	receptor internalization. A receptor-mediated endocytosis process that results in the movement of receptors from the plasma membrane to the inside of the cell. The process begins when cell surface receptors are monoubiquitinated following ligand-induced activation. Receptors are subsequently taken up into endocytic vesicles from where they are either targeted to the lysosome or vacuole for degradation or recycled back to the plasma membrane.
GO:0007098	centrosome cycle. centrosome organisation. centrosome organization. centrosome organization and biogenesis. The cell cycle process in which centrosome duplication and separation takes place. The centrosome cycle can operate with a considerable degree of independence from other processes of the cell cycle.
GO:0090307	mitotic spindle assembly. spindle assembly involved in mitosis. Mitotic bipolar spindle assembly begins with spindle microtubule nucleation from the separated spindle pole body, includes spindle elongation during prometaphase, and is complete when all kinetochores are stably attached the spindle, and the spindle assembly checkpoint is satisfied.
GO:0045601	regulation of endothelial cell differentiation. Any process that modulates the frequency, rate or extent of endothelial cell differentiation.
GO:0006518	peptide metabolic process. peptide metabolism. The chemical reactions and pathways involving peptides, compounds of two or more amino acids where the alpha carboxyl group of one is bound to the alpha amino group of another.
GO:0098930	axonal transport. axon cargo transport. axoplasmic transport. The directed movement of organelles or molecules along microtubules in axons.
GO:0051354	negative regulation of oxidoreductase activity. down regulation of oxidoreductase activity. down-regulation of oxidoreductase activity. downregulation of oxidoreductase activity. inhibition of oxidoreductase activity. oxidoreductase inhibitor. Any process that stops or reduces the rate of oxidoreductase activity, the catalysis of an oxidation-reduction (redox) reaction, a reversible chemical reaction in which the oxidation state of an atom or atoms within a molecule is altered.
GO:0006658	phosphatidylserine metabolic process. phosphatidylserine metabolism. The chemical reactions and pathways involving phosphatidylserines, any of a class of glycerophospholipids in which the phosphatidyl group is esterified to the hydroxyl group of L-serine. They are important constituents of cell membranes.
GO:0045185	maintenance of protein location. active protein retrieval. maintenance of protein localization. protein retention. protein sequestering. Any process in which a protein is maintained in a location and prevented from moving elsewhere. These include sequestration, stabilization to prevent transport elsewhere and the active retrieval of proteins that do move away.
GO:0009394	2'-deoxyribonucleotide metabolic process. 2'-deoxyribonucleotide metabolism. The chemical reactions and pathways involving a 2'-deoxyribonucleotide, a compound consisting of 2'-deoxyribonucleoside (a base linked to a 2'-deoxyribose sugar) esterified with a phosphate group at either the 3' or 5'-hydroxyl group of the sugar.
GO:0051050	positive regulation of transport. activation of transport. stimulation of transport. up regulation of transport. up-regulation of transport. upregulation of transport. Any process that activates or increases the frequency, rate or extent of the directed movement of substances (such as macromolecules, small molecules, ions) into, out of or within a cell, or between cells, by means of some agent such as a transporter or pore.
GO:0010803	regulation of tumor necrosis factor-mediated signaling pathway. regulation of TNF signaling. regulation of TNF-mediated signaling pathway. regulation of tumor necrosis factor-mediated signalling pathway. Any process that modulates the rate or extent of the tumor necrosis factor-mediated signaling pathway. The tumor necrosis factor-mediated signaling pathway is the series of molecular signals generated as a consequence of tumor necrosis factor binding to a cell surface receptor.
GO:0140131	positive regulation of lymphocyte chemotaxis. Any process that activates or increases the frequency, rate or extent of lymphocyte chemotaxis.
GO:0050870	positive regulation of T cell activation. activation of T cell activation. positive regulation of T lymphocyte activation. positive regulation of T-cell activation. positive regulation of T-lymphocyte activation. stimulation of T cell activation. up regulation of T cell activation. up-regulation of T cell activation. upregulation of T cell activation. Any process that activates or increases the frequency, rate or extent of T cell activation.
GO:0072378	blood coagulation, fibrin clot formation. A protein activation cascade that contributes to blood coagulation and consists of the cascade of enzymatic reactions initiated by physical damage to the wall of a blood vessel, leading to the formation of a formation of a fibrin clot at the site of the injury. The process also includes numerous positive and negative regulatory events.
GO:0006027	glycosaminoglycan catabolic process. glycosaminoglycan breakdown. glycosaminoglycan catabolism. glycosaminoglycan degradation. The chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the breakdown of glycosaminoglycans, any one of a group of polysaccharides that contain amino sugars.
GO:0046486	glycerolipid metabolic process. glycerolipid metabolism. The chemical reactions and pathways involving glycerolipids, any lipid with a glycerol backbone. Diacylglycerol and phosphatidate are key lipid intermediates of glycerolipid biosynthesis.
GO:0051493	regulation of cytoskeleton organization. regulation of cytoskeleton organisation. regulation of cytoskeleton organization and biogenesis. Any process that modulates the frequency, rate or extent of the formation, arrangement of constituent parts, or disassembly of cytoskeletal structures.
GO:0045444	fat cell differentiation. adipocyte cell differentiation. adipocyte differentiation. adipogenesis. adipose cell differentiation. The process in which a relatively unspecialized cell acquires specialized features of an adipocyte, an animal connective tissue cell specialized for the synthesis and storage of fat.
GO:0001890	placenta development. placental development. placentation. The process whose specific outcome is the progression of the placenta over time, from its formation to the mature structure. The placenta is an organ of metabolic interchange between fetus and mother, partly of embryonic origin and partly of maternal origin.
GO:0007611	learning or memory. The acquisition and processing of information and/or the storage and retrieval of this information over time.
GO:0050829	defense response to Gram-negative bacterium. defence response to Gram-negative bacteria. defence response to Gram-negative bacterium. defense response to Gram-negative bacteria. Gram-negative antibacterial peptide activity. Reactions triggered in response to the presence of a Gram-negative bacterium that act to protect the cell or organism.
GO:0060142	regulation of syncytium formation by plasma membrane fusion. Any process that modulates the frequency, rate or extent of the formation of a syncytium, a mass of cytoplasm containing several nuclei enclosed within a single plasma membrane, by the fusion of the plasma membranes of two or more individual cells.
GO:0019886	antigen processing and presentation of exogenous peptide antigen via MHC class II. antigen presentation, exogenous antigen via MHC class II. antigen presentation, exogenous peptide antigen. antigen processing, exogenous antigen via major histocompatibility complex class II. exogenous peptide antigen processing and presentation via MHC class II. The process in which an antigen-presenting cell expresses a peptide antigen of exogenous origin on its cell surface in association with an MHC class II protein complex. The peptide antigen is typically, but not always, processed from a whole protein.
GO:0055024	regulation of cardiac muscle tissue development. regulation of heart muscle development. Any process that modulates the frequency, rate or extent of cardiac muscle tissue development.
GO:0010941	regulation of cell death. Any process that modulates the rate or frequency of cell death. Cell death is the specific activation or halting of processes within a cell so that its vital functions markedly cease, rather than simply deteriorating gradually over time, which culminates in cell death.
GO:0003177	pulmonary valve development. The progression of the pulmonary valve over time, from its formation to the mature structure.
GO:0048644	muscle organ morphogenesis. The process in which the anatomical structures of muscle are generated and organized.
GO:0032102	negative regulation of response to external stimulus. down regulation of response to external stimulus. down-regulation of response to external stimulus. downregulation of response to external stimulus. inhibition of response to external stimulus. Any process that stops, prevents, or reduces the frequency, rate or extent of a response to an external stimulus.
GO:0009617	response to bacterium. response to bacteria. Any process that results in a change in state or activity of a cell or an organism (in terms of movement, secretion, enzyme production, gene expression, etc.) as a result of a stimulus from a bacterium.
GO:0007044	cell-substrate junction assembly. cell-substrate adherens junction assembly. The aggregation, arrangement and bonding together of a set of components to form a junction between a cell and its substrate.
GO:2000352	negative regulation of endothelial cell apoptotic process. negative regulation of apoptosis of endothelial cells. negative regulation of endothelial cell apoptosis. negative regulation of endothelial cell programmed cell death by apoptosis. negative regulation of killing of endothelial cells. negative regulation of programmed cell death of endothelial cells by apoptosis. negative regulation of programmed cell death, endothelial cells. Any process that stops, prevents or reduces the frequency, rate or extent of endothelial cell apoptotic process.
GO:0048511	rhythmic process. rhythm. Any process pertinent to the generation and maintenance of rhythms in the physiology of an organism.
GO:0043330	response to exogenous dsRNA. response to exogenous double-stranded RNA. response to viral dsRNA. Any process that results in a change in state or activity of a cell or an organism (in terms of movement, secretion, enzyme production, gene expression, etc.) as a result of an exogenous double-stranded RNA stimulus.
GO:0046888	negative regulation of hormone secretion. down regulation of hormone secretion. down-regulation of hormone secretion. downregulation of hormone secretion. inhibition of hormone secretion. Any process that stops, prevents, or reduces the frequency, rate or extent of the regulated release of a hormone from a cell.
GO:1903078	positive regulation of protein localization to plasma membrane. activation of protein localisation in plasma membrane. activation of protein localization in plasma membrane. activation of protein localization to plasma membrane. activation of protein targeting to plasma membrane. activation of protein-plasma membrane targeting. positive regulation of establishment of protein localisation in plasma membrane. positive regulation of establishment of protein localization to plasma membrane. positive regulation of protein localisation in plasma membrane. positive regulation of protein localization in plasma membrane. positive regulation of protein targeting to plasma membrane. positive regulation of protein-plasma membrane targeting. up regulation of protein localisation in plasma membrane. up regulation of protein localization in plasma membrane. up regulation of protein localization to plasma membrane. up regulation of protein targeting to plasma membrane. up regulation of protein-plasma membrane targeting. up-regulation of protein localisation in plasma membrane. up-regulation of protein localization in plasma membrane. up-regulation of protein localization to plasma membrane. up-regulation of protein targeting to plasma membrane. up-regulation of protein-plasma membrane targeting. upregulation of protein localisation in plasma membrane. upregulation of protein localization in plasma membrane. upregulation of protein localization to plasma membrane. upregulation of protein targeting to plasma membrane. upregulation of protein-plasma membrane targeting. Any process that activates or increases the frequency, rate or extent of protein localization to plasma membrane.
GO:2001242	regulation of intrinsic apoptotic signaling pathway. regulation of intrinsic apoptosis. regulation of intrinsic apoptotic pathway. regulation of intrinsic apoptotic signalling pathway. regulation of mitochondrial-mediated apoptotic pathway. Any process that modulates the frequency, rate or extent of intrinsic apoptotic signaling pathway.
GO:0071404	cellular response to low-density lipoprotein particle stimulus. response to low density lipoprotein particle. response to low-density lipoprotein particle. response to low-density lipoprotein particle stimulus. Any process that results in a change in state or activity of a cell (in terms of movement, secretion, enzyme production, gene expression, etc.) as a result of a low-density lipoprotein particle stimulus.
GO:0070317	negative regulation of G0 to G1 transition. maintenance of cell cycle quiescence. maintenance of cell quiescence. maintenance of G0 arrest. maintenance of G0 phase. A cell cycle process that stops, prevents, or reduces the rate or extent of the transition from the G0 quiescent state to the G1 phase.
GO:0043406	positive regulation of MAP kinase activity. positive regulation of mitogen activated protein kinase activity. positive regulation of mitogen-activated protein kinase activity. stimulation of MAPK activity. up regulation of MAPK activity. up-regulation of MAPK activity. upregulation of MAPK activity. Any process that activates or increases the frequency, rate or extent of MAP kinase activity.
GO:0060612	adipose tissue development. adipogenesis. The process whose specific outcome is the progression of adipose tissue over time, from its formation to the mature structure. Adipose tissue is specialized tissue that is used to store fat.
GO:0010039	response to iron ion. response to iron. Any process that results in a change in state or activity of a cell or an organism (in terms of movement, secretion, enzyme production, gene expression, etc.) as a result of an iron ion stimulus.
GO:0048167	regulation of synaptic plasticity. A process that modulates synaptic plasticity, the ability of synapses to change as circumstances require. They may alter function, such as increasing or decreasing their sensitivity, or they may increase or decrease in actual numbers.
GO:0033604	negative regulation of catecholamine secretion. down regulation of catecholamine secretion. down-regulation of catecholamine secretion. downregulation of catecholamine secretion. inhibition of catecholamine secretion. Any process that stops, prevents, or reduces the frequency, rate or extent of the regulated release of a catecholamine.
GO:0031116	positive regulation of microtubule polymerization. activation of microtubule polymerization. stimulation of microtubule polymerization. up regulation of microtubule polymerization. up-regulation of microtubule polymerization. upregulation of microtubule polymerization. Any process that activates or increases the frequency, rate or extent of microtubule polymerization.
GO:0032516	positive regulation of phosphoprotein phosphatase activity. activation of calcineurin activity. activation of phosphoprotein phosphatase activity. activation of protein phosphatase 3 activity. activation of protein phosphatase type 2A activity. activation of protein phosphatase type 2B activity. calcineurin activation. positive regulation of calcineurin activity. positive regulation of protein phosphatase 2 activity. positive regulation of protein phosphatase 3 activity. positive regulation of protein phosphatase type 2A activity. positive regulation of protein phosphatase type 2B activity. stimulation of phosphoprotein phosphatase activity. stimulation of protein phosphatase 2 activity. stimulation of protein phosphatase type 2A activity. stimulation of protein phosphatase type 2B activity. up regulation of calcineurin activity. up regulation of phosphoprotein phosphatase activity. up regulation of protein phosphatase 2 activity. up regulation of protein phosphatase 3 activity. up regulation of protein phosphatase type 2A activity. up regulation of protein phosphatase type 2B activity. up-regulation of phosphoprotein phosphatase activity. up-regulation of protein phosphatase 2 activity. up-regulation of protein phosphatase type 2A activity. up-regulation of protein phosphatase type 2B activity. upregulation of phosphoprotein phosphatase activity. upregulation of protein phosphatase 2 activity. upregulation of protein phosphatase type 2A activity. upregulation of protein phosphatase type 2B activity. Any process that activates or increases the activity of a phosphoprotein phosphatase.
GO:0030521	androgen receptor signaling pathway. androgen receptor signalling pathway. The series of molecular signals initiated by androgen binding to its receptor, and ending with the regulation of a downstream cellular process, e.g. transcription.
GO:0001958	endochondral ossification. Replacement ossification wherein bone tissue replaces cartilage.
GO:0045652	regulation of megakaryocyte differentiation. Any process that modulates the frequency, rate or extent of megakaryocyte differentiation.
GO:0000724	double-strand break repair via homologous recombination. HDR. homologous recombinational repair. homology-directed repair. HRR. Rad51-dependent recombinational repair. Rhp51-dependent recombinational repair. The error-free repair of a double-strand break in DNA in which the broken DNA molecule is repaired using homologous sequences. A strand in the broken DNA searches for a homologous region in an intact chromosome to serve as the template for DNA synthesis. The restoration of two intact DNA molecules results in the exchange, reciprocal or nonreciprocal, of genetic material between the intact DNA molecule and the broken DNA molecule.
GO:1905564	positive regulation of vascular endothelial cell proliferation. activation of vascular endothelial cell proliferation. up regulation of vascular endothelial cell proliferation. up-regulation of vascular endothelial cell proliferation. upregulation of vascular endothelial cell proliferation. Any process that activates or increases the frequency, rate or extent of vascular endothelial cell proliferation.
GO:0007224	smoothened signaling pathway. hedgehog signaling pathway. hh signaling pathway. hh signalling pathway. Shh signaling pathway. smoothened signalling pathway. Sonic hedgehog signaling pathway. The series of molecular signals generated as a consequence of activation of the transmembrane protein Smoothened.
GO:0044249	cellular biosynthetic process. cellular anabolism. cellular biosynthesis. cellular formation. cellular synthesis. The chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the formation of substances, carried out by individual cells.
GO:0042981	regulation of apoptotic process. apoptosis regulator activity. regulation of apoptosis. Any process that modulates the occurrence or rate of cell death by apoptotic process.
GO:0035690	cellular response to xenobiotic stimulus. cellular response to drug. Any process that results in a change in state or activity of a cell (in terms of movement, secretion, enzyme production, gene expression, etc.) as a result of a stimulus from a xenobiotic, a compound foreign to the organism exposed to it. It may be synthesized by another organism (like ampicilin) or it can be a synthetic chemical.
GO:0010470	regulation of gastrulation. Any process that modulates the rate or extent of gastrulation. Gastrulation is the complex and coordinated series of cellular movements that occurs at the end of cleavage during embryonic development of most animals.
GO:0033688	regulation of osteoblast proliferation. Any process that modulates the frequency, rate or extent of osteoblast proliferation.
GO:0045668	negative regulation of osteoblast differentiation. down regulation of osteoblast differentiation. down-regulation of osteoblast differentiation. downregulation of osteoblast differentiation. inhibition of osteoblast differentiation. Any process that stops, prevents, or reduces the frequency, rate or extent of osteoblast differentiation.
GO:1903825	organic acid transmembrane transport. The process in which an organic acid is transported across a membrane.
GO:1902403	mitotic DNA integrity checkpoint signaling. intracellular signal transduction involved in mitotic cell cycle G2/M transition decatenation checkpoint. intracellular signal transduction involved in topo II checkpoint. intracellular signal transduction pathway involved in mitotic cell cycle G2/M transition decatenation checkpoint. intracellular signal transduction pathway involved in mitotic DNA integrity checkpoint. intracellular signal transduction pathway involved in topo II checkpoint. intracellular signal transduction pathway involved in topoisomerase II checkpoint. intracellular signaling cascade involved in mitotic cell cycle G2/M transition decatenation checkpoint. intracellular signaling cascade involved in mitotic DNA integrity checkpoint. intracellular signaling cascade involved in topo II checkpoint. intracellular signaling chain involved in mitotic cell cycle G2/M transition decatenation checkpoint. intracellular signaling chain involved in mitotic DNA integrity checkpoint. intracellular signaling pathway involved in mitotic cell cycle G2/M transition decatenation checkpoint. intracellular signaling pathway involved in mitotic DNA integrity checkpoint. intracellular signaling pathway involved in topo II checkpoint. intracellular signaling pathway involved in topoisomerase II checkpoint. mitotic cell cycle G2/M transition decatenation checkpoint. mitotic DNA integrity checkpoint. signal transduction involved in mitotic DNA integrity checkpoint. signal transduction via intracellular signaling cascade involved in mitotic cell cycle G2/M transition decatenation checkpoint. signal transduction via intracellular signaling cascade involved in topo II checkpoint. A signaling process that controls cell cycle progression in response to changes in DNA structure by monitoring the integrity of the DNA during mitosis. The DNA integrity checkpoint begins with detection of DNA damage, defects in DNA structure or DNA replication, and ends with signal transduction.
GO:0033500	carbohydrate homeostasis. A homeostatic process involved in the maintenance of an internal steady state of a carbohydrate within an organism or cell.
GO:0002224	toll-like receptor signaling pathway. TLR signaling pathway. toll-like receptor signalling pathway. The series of molecular signals initiated by a ligand binding to a toll-like receptor on the surface of a target cell. Toll-like receptors directly bind pattern motifs from a variety of microbial sources to initiate an innate immune response.
GO:0048730	epidermis morphogenesis. hypodermis morphogenesis. The process in which the anatomical structures of the epidermis are generated and organized. The epidermis is the outer epithelial layer of an animal, it may be a single layer that produces an extracellular material (e.g. the cuticle of arthropods) or a complex stratified squamous epithelium, as in the case of many vertebrate species.
GO:0034114	regulation of heterotypic cell-cell adhesion. Any process that modulates the frequency, rate, or extent of heterotypic cell-cell adhesion.
GO:0007584	response to nutrient. nutritional response pathway. response to nutrients. Any process that results in a change in state or activity of a cell or an organism (in terms of movement, secretion, enzyme production, gene expression, etc.) as a result of a nutrient stimulus.
GO:0045907	positive regulation of vasoconstriction. activation of vasoconstriction. stimulation of vasoconstriction. up regulation of vasoconstriction. up-regulation of vasoconstriction. upregulation of vasoconstriction. Any process that activates or increases the frequency, rate or extent of vasoconstriction.
GO:0035723	interleukin-15-mediated signaling pathway. IL-15-mediated signaling pathway. interleukin-15-mediated signalling pathway. The series of molecular signals initiated by interleukin-15 binding to its receptor on the surface of a target cell, and ending with the regulation of a downstream cellular process, e.g. transcription.
GO:0055022	negative regulation of cardiac muscle tissue growth. down regulation of cardiac muscle growth. down-regulation of cardiac muscle growth. downregulation of cardiac muscle growth. inhibition of cardiac muscle growth. negative regulation of heart muscle growth. Any process that stops, prevents, or reduces the frequency, rate or extent of cardiac muscle growth.
GO:0050863	regulation of T cell activation. regulation of T lymphocyte activation. regulation of T-cell activation. regulation of T-lymphocyte activation. Any process that modulates the frequency, rate or extent of T cell activation.
GO:0050670	regulation of lymphocyte proliferation. Any process that modulates the frequency, rate or extent of lymphocyte proliferation.
GO:0043410	positive regulation of MAPK cascade. activation of MAPK cascade. activation of MAPKKK cascade. positive regulation of MAP kinase cascade. positive regulation of MAP kinase kinase kinase cascade. positive regulation of MAPKKK cascade. positive regulation of mitogen activated protein kinase kinase kinase cascade. positive regulation of mitogen-activated protein kinase cascade. positive regulation of mitogen-activated protein kinase kinase kinase cascade. stimulation of MAPK cascade. stimulation of MAPKKK cascade. up regulation of MAPKKK cascade. up-regulation of MAPK cascade. up-regulation of MAPKKK cascade. upregulation of MAPK cascade. upregulation of MAPKKK cascade. Any process that activates or increases the frequency, rate or extent of signal transduction mediated by the MAPK cascade.
GO:0034446	substrate adhesion-dependent cell spreading. cell spreading during cell substrate adhesion. substrate adhesion dependent cell spreading. The morphogenetic process that results in flattening of a cell as a consequence of its adhesion to a substrate.
GO:0032103	positive regulation of response to external stimulus. activation of response to external stimulus. stimulation of response to external stimulus. up regulation of response to external stimulus. up-regulation of response to external stimulus. upregulation of response to external stimulus. Any process that activates, maintains or increases the rate of a response to an external stimulus.
GO:0072525	pyridine-containing compound biosynthetic process. pyridine and derivative biosynthetic process. pyridine-containing compound anabolism. pyridine-containing compound biosynthesis. pyridine-containing compound formation. pyridine-containing compound synthesis. The chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the formation of a pyridine-containing compound, i.e. any compound that contains pyridine or a formal derivative thereof.
GO:1903008	organelle disassembly. organelle degradation. The disaggregation of an organelle into its constituent components.
GO:0033554	cellular response to stress. Any process that results in a change in state or activity of a cell (in terms of movement, secretion, enzyme production, gene expression, etc.) as a result of a stimulus indicating the organism is under stress. The stress is usually, but not necessarily, exogenous (e.g. temperature, humidity, ionizing radiation).
GO:0060425	lung morphogenesis. The process in which the anatomical structures of the lung are generated and organized.
GO:0046364	monosaccharide biosynthetic process. monosaccharide anabolism. monosaccharide biosynthesis. monosaccharide formation. monosaccharide synthesis. The chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the formation of monosaccharides, polyhydric alcohols containing either an aldehyde or a keto group and between three to ten or more carbon atoms.
GO:0033574	response to testosterone. response to testosterone stimulus. Any process that results in a change in state or activity of a cell or an organism (in terms of movement, secretion, enzyme production, gene expression, etc.) as a result of a testosterone stimulus.
GO:0009135	purine nucleoside diphosphate metabolic process. purine nucleoside diphosphate metabolism. The chemical reactions and pathways involving purine nucleoside diphosphate, a compound consisting of a purine base linked to a ribose or deoxyribose sugar esterified with diphosphate on the sugar.
GO:0006259	DNA metabolic process. cellular DNA metabolism. DNA metabolism. Any cellular metabolic process involving deoxyribonucleic acid. This is one of the two main types of nucleic acid, consisting of a long, unbranched macromolecule formed from one, or more commonly, two, strands of linked deoxyribonucleotides.
GO:0010817	regulation of hormone levels. Any process that modulates the levels of hormone within an organism or a tissue. A hormone is any substance formed in very small amounts in one specialized organ or group of cells and carried (sometimes in the bloodstream) to another organ or group of cells in the same organism, upon which it has a specific regulatory action.
GO:0051897	positive regulation of protein kinase B signaling. activation of protein kinase B signaling cascade. positive regulation of AKT signaling cascade. positive regulation of AKT signalling cascade. positive regulation of PKB signaling cascade. positive regulation of PKB signalling cascade. positive regulation of protein kinase B signaling cascade. positive regulation of protein kinase B signalling cascade. stimulation of protein kinase B signaling cascade. up regulation of protein kinase B signaling cascade. up-regulation of protein kinase B signaling cascade. upregulation of protein kinase B signaling cascade. Any process that activates or increases the frequency, rate or extent of protein kinase B signaling, a series of reactions mediated by the intracellular serine/threonine kinase protein kinase B.
GO:0010447	response to acidic pH. response to acidity. Any process that results in a change in state or activity of a cell or an organism (in terms of movement, secretion, enzyme production, gene expression, etc.) as a result of a pH stimulus with pH < 7. pH is a measure of the acidity or basicity of an aqueous solution.
GO:0043066	negative regulation of apoptotic process. anti-apoptosis. apoptosis inhibitor activity. down regulation of apoptosis. down-regulation of apoptosis. downregulation of apoptosis. inhibition of apoptosis. negative regulation of apoptosis. pro-survival. Any process that stops, prevents, or reduces the frequency, rate or extent of cell death by apoptotic process.
GO:0097194	execution phase of apoptosis. apoptosis. execution phase of apoptotic process. A stage of the apoptotic process that starts with the controlled breakdown of the cell through the action of effector caspases or other effector molecules (e.g. cathepsins, calpains etc.). Key steps of the execution phase are rounding-up of the cell, retraction of pseudopodes, reduction of cellular volume (pyknosis), chromatin condensation, nuclear fragmentation (karyorrhexis), plasma membrane blebbing and fragmentation of the cell into apoptotic bodies. When the execution phase is completed, the cell has died.
GO:0014068	positive regulation of phosphatidylinositol 3-kinase signaling. activation of phosphoinositide 3-kinase cascade. positive regulation of phosphatidylinositol 3-kinase cascade. positive regulation of phosphoinositide 3-kinase cascade. positive regulation of PI 3-kinase cascade. positive regulation of PI3K cascade. stimulation of phosphatidylinositol 3-kinase cascade. up regulation of phosphatidylinositol 3-kinase cascade. up-regulation of phosphatidylinositol 3-kinase cascade. upregulation of phosphatidylinositol 3-kinase cascade. Any process that activates or increases the frequency, rate or extent of signal transduction mediated by the phosphatidylinositol 3-kinase cascade.
GO:0030198	extracellular matrix organization. extracellular matrix organisation. extracellular matrix organization and biogenesis. A process that is carried out at the cellular level which results in the assembly, arrangement of constituent parts, or disassembly of an extracellular matrix.
GO:0006536	glutamate metabolic process. glutamate metabolism. glutamic acid metabolic process. glutamic acid metabolism. The chemical reactions and pathways involving glutamate, the anion of 2-aminopentanedioic acid.
GO:0048638	regulation of developmental growth. Any process that modulates the frequency, rate or extent of developmental growth.
GO:0055089	fatty acid homeostasis. Any process involved in the maintenance of an internal steady state of fatty acid within an organism or cell.
GO:0031334	positive regulation of protein-containing complex assembly. activation of protein complex assembly. positive regulation of protein complex assembly. stimulation of protein complex assembly. up regulation of protein complex assembly. up-regulation of protein complex assembly. upregulation of protein complex assembly. Any process that activates or increases the frequency, rate or extent of protein complex assembly.
GO:1904886	beta-catenin destruction complex disassembly. 23S APC complex disassembly. APC-Axin-1-beta-catenin complex disassembly. Axin-APC-beta-catenin-GSK3B complex disassembly. BDC disassembly. beta-catenin degradation complex disassembly. dissociation of beta-catenin degradation complex. The disaggregation of a beta-catenin destruction complex into its constituent components.
GO:0010822	positive regulation of mitochondrion organization. positive regulation of mitochondrion organisation. Any process that increases the frequency, rate or extent of a process involved in the formation, arrangement of constituent parts, or disassembly of a mitochondrion.
GO:0042088	T-helper 1 type immune response. Th1 immune response. An immune response which is associated with resistance to intracellular bacteria, fungi, and protozoa, and pathological conditions such as arthritis, and which is typically orchestrated by the production of particular cytokines by T-helper 1 cells, most notably interferon-gamma, IL-2, and lymphotoxin.
GO:0070268	cornification. A type of programmed cell death that occurs in the epidermis, morphologically and biochemically distinct from apoptosis. It leads to the formation of corneocytes, i.e. dead keratinocytes containing an amalgam of specific proteins (e.g., keratin, loricrin, SPR and involucrin) and lipids (e.g., fatty acids and ceramides), which are necessary for the function of the cornified skin layer (mechanical resistance, elasticity, water repellence and structural stability).
GO:0042743	hydrogen peroxide metabolic process. H2O2 metabolic process. hydrogen peroxide metabolism. The chemical reactions and pathways involving hydrogen peroxide (H2O2), a potentially harmful byproduct of aerobic cellular respiration which can cause damage to DNA.
GO:0098657	import into cell. uptake. The directed movement of some substance from outside of a cell into a cell. This may occur via transport across the plasma membrane or via endocytosis.
GO:0051590	positive regulation of neurotransmitter transport. activation of neurotransmitter transport. stimulation of neurotransmitter transport. up regulation of neurotransmitter transport. up-regulation of neurotransmitter transport. upregulation of neurotransmitter transport. Any process that activates or increases the frequency, rate or extent of the directed movement of a neurotransmitter into, out of or within a cell, or between cells, by means of some agent such as a transporter or pore.
GO:0098732	macromolecule deacylation. The removal of an acyl group, any group or radical of the form RCO- where R is an organic group, from a macromolecule.
GO:0071326	cellular response to monosaccharide stimulus. Any process that results in a change in state or activity of a cell (in terms of movement, secretion, enzyme production, gene expression, etc.) as a result of a monosaccharide stimulus.
GO:0042119	neutrophil activation. The change in morphology and behavior of a neutrophil resulting from exposure to a cytokine, chemokine, cellular ligand, or soluble factor.
GO:0002292	T cell differentiation involved in immune response. T cell development involved in immune response. T cell differentiation during immune response. T lymphocyte differentiation during immune response. T-cell differentiation during immune response. T-lymphocyte differentiation during immune response. The process in which an antigenically naive T cell acquires the specialized features of an effector, regulatory, or memory T cell as part of an immune response. Effector T cells include cells which provide T cell help or exhibit cytotoxicity towards other cells.
GO:0045806	negative regulation of endocytosis. down regulation of endocytosis. down-regulation of endocytosis. downregulation of endocytosis. inhibition of endocytosis. Any process that stops, prevents, or reduces the frequency, rate or extent of endocytosis.
GO:0019953	sexual reproduction. A type of reproduction that combines the genetic material of two gametes (such as a sperm or egg cell or fungal spores). The gametes have an haploid genome (with a single set of chromosomes, the product of a meiotic division) and combines with one another to produce a zygote (diploid).
GO:0007368	determination of left/right symmetry. determination of left/right asymmetry. The establishment of an organism's body plan or part of an organism with respect to the left and right halves. The pattern can either be symmetric, such that the halves are mirror images, or asymmetric where the pattern deviates from this symmetry.
GO:0072329	monocarboxylic acid catabolic process. The chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the breakdown of monocarboxylic acids, any organic acid containing one carboxyl (-COOH) group.
GO:0006446	regulation of translational initiation. Any process that modulates the frequency, rate or extent of translational initiation.
GO:0035904	aorta development. The progression of the aorta over time, from its initial formation to the mature structure. An aorta is an artery that carries blood from the heart to other parts of the body.
GO:0043534	blood vessel endothelial cell migration. The orderly movement of an endothelial cell into the extracellular matrix in order to form new blood vessels during angiogenesis.
GO:0042572	retinol metabolic process. retinol metabolism. vitamin A1 alcohol metabolic process. vitamin A1 alcohol metabolism. vitamin A1 metabolic process. vitamin A1 metabolism. The chemical reactions and pathways involving retinol, one of the three compounds that makes up vitamin A.
GO:0006468	protein phosphorylation. protein amino acid phosphorylation. The process of introducing a phosphate group on to a protein.
GO:0007223	Wnt signaling pathway, calcium modulating pathway. frizzled-2 signaling pathway. frizzled-2 signalling pathway. non-canonical Wnt signaling pathway. Wnt receptor signaling pathway, calcium modulating pathway. Wnt-activated signaling pathway, calcium modulating pathway. The series of molecular signals initiated by binding of a Wnt protein to a receptor on the surface of the target cell where activated receptors leads to an increase in intracellular calcium and activation of protein kinase C (PKC).
GO:0032467	positive regulation of cytokinesis. activation of cytokinesis. positive regulation of cell cycle cytokinesis. stimulation of cytokinesis. up regulation of cytokinesis. up-regulation of cytokinesis. upregulation of cytokinesis. Any process that activates or increases the frequency, rate or extent of the division of the cytoplasm of a cell, and its separation into two daughter cells.
GO:0009314	response to radiation. response to electromagnetic radiation stimulus. response to radiation stimulus. Any process that results in a change in state or activity of a cell or an organism (in terms of movement, secretion, enzyme production, gene expression, etc.) as a result of an electromagnetic radiation stimulus. Electromagnetic radiation is a propagating wave in space with electric and magnetic components. These components oscillate at right angles to each other and to the direction of propagation.
GO:0046683	response to organophosphorus. organophosphorus resistance. organophosphorus susceptibility/resistance. Any process that results in a change in state or activity of a cell or an organism (in terms of movement, secretion, enzyme production, gene expression, etc.) as a result of an organophosphorus stimulus. Organophosphorus is a compound containing phosphorus bound to an organic molecule; several organophosphorus compounds are used as insecticides, and they are highly toxic cholinesterase inhibitors.
GO:2001258	negative regulation of cation channel activity. negative regulation of cation diffusion facilitator activity. negative regulation of nonselective cation channel activity. Any process that stops, prevents or reduces the frequency, rate or extent of cation channel activity.
GO:1903522	regulation of blood circulation. regulation of hemolymph circulation. Any process that modulates the frequency, rate or extent of blood circulation.
GO:0070301	cellular response to hydrogen peroxide. Any process that results in a change in state or activity of a cell (in terms of movement, secretion, enzyme production, gene expression, etc.) as a result of a hydrogen peroxide (H2O2) stimulus.
GO:0072078	nephron tubule morphogenesis. The process in which the anatomical structures of a nephron tubule are generated and organized. A nephron tubule is an epithelial tube that is part of the nephron, the functional part of the kidney.
GO:0001933	negative regulation of protein phosphorylation. down regulation of protein amino acid phosphorylation. down-regulation of protein amino acid phosphorylation. downregulation of protein amino acid phosphorylation. inhibition of protein amino acid phosphorylation. negative regulation of protein amino acid phosphorylation. Any process that stops, prevents or reduces the rate of addition of phosphate groups to amino acids within a protein.
GO:0044088	regulation of vacuole organization. regulation of vacuole biogenesis. regulation of vacuole organisation. Any process that modulates the frequency, rate or extent of a process involved in the formation, arrangement of constituent parts, or disassembly of a vacuole.
GO:0070925	organelle assembly. The aggregation, arrangement and bonding together of a set of components to form an organelle. An organelle is an organized structure of distinctive morphology and function. Includes the nucleus, mitochondria, plastids, vacuoles, vesicles, ribosomes and the cytoskeleton. Excludes the plasma membrane.
GO:0051453	regulation of intracellular pH. cell pH regulation. cellular pH regulation. pH regulation in cell. regulation of cell pH. Any process that modulates the internal pH of a cell, measured by the concentration of the hydrogen ion.
GO:0001816	cytokine production. cytokine biosynthetic process. cytokine metabolic process. cytokine secretion. interferon production. interferon secretion. interleukin production. interleukin secretion. The appearance of a cytokine due to biosynthesis or secretion following a cellular stimulus, resulting in an increase in its intracellular or extracellular levels.
GO:0072073	kidney epithelium development. The process whose specific outcome is the progression of an epithelium in the kidney over time, from its formation to the mature structure. An epithelium is a tissue that covers the internal or external surfaces of an anatomical structure.
GO:0045913	positive regulation of carbohydrate metabolic process. activation of carbohydrate metabolic process. positive regulation of carbohydrate metabolism. stimulation of carbohydrate metabolic process. up regulation of carbohydrate metabolic process. up-regulation of carbohydrate metabolic process. upregulation of carbohydrate metabolic process. Any process that activates or increases the frequency, rate or extent of the chemical reactions and pathways involving carbohydrate.
GO:0042157	lipoprotein metabolic process. lipoprotein metabolism. The chemical reactions and pathways involving any conjugated, water-soluble protein in which the covalently attached nonprotein group consists of a lipid or lipids.
GO:0002479	antigen processing and presentation of exogenous peptide antigen via MHC class I, TAP-dependent. cross presentation. cross-presentation. exogenous peptide antigen processing and presentation via MHC class I, TAP-dependent. TAP-dependent antigen processing and presentation of exogenous peptide antigen via MHC class I. TAP-dependent exogenous peptide antigen processing and presentation via MHC class I. The process in which an antigen-presenting cell expresses a peptide antigen of exogenous origin on its cell surface in association with an MHC class I protein complex following intracellular transport via a TAP (transporter associated with antigen processing) pathway. The peptide is typically a fragment of a larger exogenous protein which has been degraded within the cell and is dependent on TAP transport from the cytosol to ER for association with the MHC class I molecule. Class I here refers to classical class I molecules.
GO:0040020	regulation of meiotic nuclear division. regulation of meiosis. Any process that modulates the frequency, rate or extent of meiotic nuclear division, the process in which the nucleus of a diploid cell divides twice forming four haploid cells, one or more of which usually function as gametes.
GO:0006349	regulation of gene expression by genomic imprinting. regulation of gene expression by DNA imprinting. regulation of gene expression by genetic imprinting. An epigenetic mechanism of regulation of gene expression in which epigenetic modifications (imprints) are established during gametogenesis. For a given gene to show parentally biased expression, the imprint are established exclusively in one of the two parental genomes, thus generating an asymmetry between the maternal and paternal alleles.
GO:0032722	positive regulation of chemokine production. activation of chemokine production. positive regulation of chemokine biosynthetic process. positive regulation of chemokine secretion. stimulation of chemokine production. up regulation of chemokine production. up-regulation of chemokine production. upregulation of chemokine production. Any process that activates or increases the frequency, rate, or extent of chemokine production.
GO:0002573	myeloid leukocyte differentiation. myeloid leucocyte differentiation. The process in which a relatively unspecialized myeloid precursor cell acquires the specialized features of any cell of the myeloid leukocyte lineage.
GO:2001024	negative regulation of response to drug. negative regulation of drug resistance. negative regulation of drug susceptibility/resistance. Any process that stops, prevents or reduces the frequency, rate or extent of response to drug.
GO:0032891	negative regulation of organic acid transport. down regulation of organic acid transport. down-regulation of organic acid transport. downregulation of organic acid transport. inhibition of organic acid transport. Any process that stops, prevents, or reduces the frequency, rate or extent of the directed movement of organic acids into, out of or within a cell, or between cells, by means of some agent such as a transporter or pore.
GO:0061387	regulation of extent of cell growth. Any process that modulates the extent of cell growth.
GO:0032515	negative regulation of phosphoprotein phosphatase activity. down regulation of calcineurin activity. down regulation of phosphoprotein phosphatase activity. down regulation of protein phosphatase 2 activity. down regulation of protein phosphatase 3 activity. down regulation of protein phosphatase type 2A activity. down regulation of protein phosphatase type 2B activity. down-regulation of phosphoprotein phosphatase activity. down-regulation of protein phosphatase type 2A activity. down-regulation of protein phosphatase type 2B activity. downregulation of calcineurin activity. downregulation of phosphoprotein phosphatase activity. downregulation of protein phosphatase 2 activity. downregulation of protein phosphatase 3 activity. downregulation of protein phosphatase type 2A activity. downregulation of protein phosphatase type 2B activity. inhibition of calcineurin activity. inhibition of phosphoprotein phosphatase activity. inhibition of protein phosphatase 2 activity. inhibition of protein phosphatase 3 activity. inhibition of protein phosphatase type 2A activity. inhibition of protein phosphatase type 2B activity. negative regulation of calcineurin activity. negative regulation of protein phosphatase 2 activity. negative regulation of protein phosphatase type 2A activity. negative regulation of protein phosphatase type 2B activity. regulation of protein phosphatase 3 activity. Any process that stops or reduces the activity of a phosphoprotein phosphatase.
GO:1901576	organic substance biosynthetic process. organic molecular entity anabolism. organic molecular entity biosynthesis. organic molecular entity biosynthetic process. organic molecular entity formation. organic molecular entity synthesis. organic substance anabolism. organic substance biosynthesis. organic substance formation. organic substance synthesis. The chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the formation of an organic substance, any molecular entity containing carbon.
GO:0014902	myotube differentiation. The process in which a relatively unspecialized cell acquires specialized features of a myotube cell. Myotube differentiation starts with myoblast fusion and the appearance of specific cell markers (this is the cell development step). Then individual myotubes can fuse to form bigger myotubes and start to contract. Myotubes are multinucleated cells that are formed when proliferating myoblasts exit the cell cycle, differentiate and fuse.
GO:0032387	negative regulation of intracellular transport. down regulation of intracellular transport. down-regulation of intracellular transport. downregulation of intracellular transport. inhibition of intracellular transport. Any process that stops, prevents, or reduces the frequency, rate or extent of the directed movement of substances within cells.
GO:0051051	negative regulation of transport. down regulation of transport. down-regulation of transport. downregulation of transport. inhibition of transport. Any process that stops, prevents, or reduces the frequency, rate or extent of the directed movement of substances (such as macromolecules, small molecules, ions) into, out of or within a cell, or between cells, by means of some agent such as a transporter or pore.
GO:0035556	intracellular signal transduction. intracellular protein kinase cascade. intracellular signal transduction pathway. intracellular signaling cascade. intracellular signaling chain. intracellular signaling pathway. protein kinase cascade. signal transduction via intracellular signaling cascade. signal transmission via intracellular cascade. The process in which a signal is passed on to downstream components within the cell, which become activated themselves to further propagate the signal and finally trigger a change in the function or state of the cell.
GO:0050966	detection of mechanical stimulus involved in sensory perception of pain. mechanical nociception. perception of pain, detection of mechanical stimulus. perception of pain, sensory detection of mechanical stimulus. perception of pain, sensory transduction of mechanical stimulus. sensory detection of mechanical stimulus during perception of pain. sensory transduction of mechanical stimulus during perception of pain. The series of events involved in the perception of pain in which a mechanical stimulus is received and converted into a molecular signal.
GO:2000811	negative regulation of anoikis. negative regulation of detachment induced cell death. negative regulation of suspension induced apoptosis. Any process that stops, prevents or reduces the frequency, rate or extent of anoikis.
GO:0032728	positive regulation of interferon-beta production. activation of interferon-beta production. positive regulation of IFN-beta production. positive regulation of interferon-beta biosynthetic process. positive regulation of interferon-beta secretion. stimulation of interferon-beta production. up regulation of interferon-beta production. up-regulation of interferon-beta production. upregulation of interferon-beta production. Any process that activates or increases the frequency, rate, or extent of interferon-beta production.
GO:0050679	positive regulation of epithelial cell proliferation. activation of epithelial cell proliferation. stimulation of epithelial cell proliferation. up regulation of epithelial cell proliferation. up-regulation of epithelial cell proliferation. upregulation of epithelial cell proliferation. Any process that activates or increases the rate or extent of epithelial cell proliferation.
GO:0034383	low-density lipoprotein particle clearance. LDL clearance. The process in which a low-density lipoprotein particle is removed from the blood via receptor-mediated endocytosis and its constituent parts degraded.
GO:0061028	establishment of endothelial barrier. The establishment of a barrier between endothelial cell layers, such as those in the brain, lung or intestine, to exert specific and selective control over the passage of water and solutes, thus allowing formation and maintenance of compartments that differ in fluid and solute composition.
GO:0098771	inorganic ion homeostasis. Any process involved in the maintenance of an internal steady state of inorganic ions within an organism or cell.
GO:0034030	ribonucleoside bisphosphate biosynthetic process. ribonucleoside bisphosphate anabolism. ribonucleoside bisphosphate biosynthesis. ribonucleoside bisphosphate formation. ribonucleoside bisphosphate synthesis. The chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the formation of a ribonucleoside bisphosphate, a compound consisting of a nucleobase linked to a ribose sugar esterified with one phosphate group attached to each of two different hydroxyl groups on the sugar.
GO:0071695	anatomical structure maturation. A developmental process, independent of morphogenetic (shape) change, that is required for an anatomical structure to attain its fully functional state.
GO:0060359	response to ammonium ion. response to ammonia. Any process that results in a change in state or activity of a cell or an organism (in terms of movement, secretion, enzyme production, gene expression, etc.) as a result of an ammonium stimulus.
GO:0007586	digestion. The whole of the physical, chemical, and biochemical processes carried out by multicellular organisms to break down ingested nutrients into components that may be easily absorbed and directed into metabolism.
GO:0018108	peptidyl-tyrosine phosphorylation. The phosphorylation of peptidyl-tyrosine to form peptidyl-O4'-phospho-L-tyrosine.
GO:0045737	positive regulation of cyclin-dependent protein serine/threonine kinase activity. activation of cyclin-dependent protein kinase activity. positive regulation of CDK activity. positive regulation of cyclin-dependent protein kinase activity. stimulation of cyclin-dependent protein kinase activity. up regulation of cyclin-dependent protein kinase activity. up-regulation of cyclin-dependent protein kinase activity. upregulation of cyclin-dependent protein kinase activity. Any process that activates or increases the frequency, rate or extent of CDK activity.
GO:0038096	Fc-gamma receptor signaling pathway involved in phagocytosis. Fc gamma receptor-dependent phagocytosis. Fc-gamma receptor signalling pathway involved in phagocytosis. Fcgamma receptor-mediated phagocytosis. IgG-mediated phagocytosis. An Fc-gamma receptor signaling pathway that contributes to the endocytic engulfment of external particulate material by phagocytes.
GO:0061001	regulation of dendritic spine morphogenesis. Any process that modulates the rate, frequency, or extent of dendritic spine morphogenesis, the process in which the anatomical structures of a dendritic spine are generated and organized. A dendritic spine is a protrusion from a dendrite and a specialized subcellular compartment involved in synaptic transmission.
GO:0045589	regulation of regulatory T cell differentiation. regulation of regulatory T cell development. regulation of regulatory T lymphocyte differentiation. regulation of regulatory T-cell differentiation. regulation of regulatory T-lymphocyte differentiation. regulation of suppressor T cell differentiation. regulation of suppressor T lymphocyte differentiation. regulation of suppressor T-cell differentiation. regulation of suppressor T-lymphocyte differentiation. Any process that modulates the frequency, rate or extent of differentiation of regulatory T cells.
GO:0003203	endocardial cushion morphogenesis. The process in which the anatomical structure of the endocardial cushion is generated and organized. The endocardial cushion is a specialized region of mesenchymal cells that will give rise to the heart septa and valves.
GO:0045740	positive regulation of DNA replication. activation of DNA replication. stimulation of DNA replication. up regulation of DNA replication. up-regulation of DNA replication. upregulation of DNA replication. Any process that activates or increases the frequency, rate or extent of DNA replication.
GO:1901568	fatty acid derivative metabolic process. fatty acid derivative metabolism. The chemical reactions and pathways involving fatty acid derivative.
GO:0090407	organophosphate biosynthetic process. The chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the biosynthesis of deoxyribose phosphate, the phosphorylated sugar 2-deoxy-erythro-pentose.
GO:0040019	positive regulation of embryonic development. activation of embryonic development. stimulation of embryonic development. up regulation of embryonic development. up-regulation of embryonic development. upregulation of embryonic development. Any process that activates or increases the frequency, rate or extent of embryonic development.
GO:0030832	regulation of actin filament length. Any process that controls the length of actin filaments in a cell.
GO:1903320	regulation of protein modification by small protein conjugation or removal. Any process that modulates the frequency, rate or extent of protein modification by small protein conjugation or removal.
GO:0046457	prostanoid biosynthetic process. prostanoid anabolism. prostanoid biosynthesis. prostanoid formation. prostanoid synthesis. The chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the formation of prostanoids, any compound based on or derived from the prostanoate structure.
GO:0015980	energy derivation by oxidation of organic compounds. chemoorganotrophy. The chemical reactions and pathways by which a cell derives energy from organic compounds; results in the oxidation of the compounds from which energy is released.
GO:0034142	toll-like receptor 4 signaling pathway. TLR4 signaling pathway. toll-like receptor 4 signalling pathway. The series of molecular signals initiated by a ligand binding to toll-like receptor 4.
GO:0034654	nucleobase-containing compound biosynthetic process. nucleobase, nucleoside, nucleotide and nucleic acid anabolism. nucleobase, nucleoside, nucleotide and nucleic acid biosynthesis. nucleobase, nucleoside, nucleotide and nucleic acid formation. nucleobase, nucleoside, nucleotide and nucleic acid synthesis. The chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the formation of nucleobases, nucleosides, nucleotides and nucleic acids.
GO:0006418	tRNA aminoacylation for protein translation. tRNA charging. The synthesis of aminoacyl tRNA by the formation of an ester bond between the 3'-hydroxyl group of the most 3' adenosine of the tRNA and the alpha carboxylic acid  group of an amino acid, to be used in ribosome-mediated polypeptide synthesis.
GO:0010259	multicellular organism aging. An aging process that has as participant a whole multicellular organism. Multicellular organism aging includes loss of functions such as resistance to disease, homeostasis, and fertility, as well as wear and tear. Multicellular organisms aging includes processes like cellular senescence and organ senescence, but is more inclusive. May precede death (GO:0016265) of an organism and may succeed developmental maturation (GO:0021700).
GO:0045086	positive regulation of interleukin-2 production. activation of interleukin-2 production. positive regulation of IL-2 production. positive regulation of interleukin-2 biosynthetic process. positive regulation of interleukin-2 secretion. stimulation of interleukin-2 production. up regulation of interleukin-2 production. up-regulation of interleukin-2 production. upregulation of interleukin-2 production. Any process that activates or increases the frequency, rate, or extent of interleukin-2 production.
GO:0042130	negative regulation of T cell proliferation. down regulation of T cell proliferation. down-regulation of T cell proliferation. downregulation of T cell proliferation. inhibition of T cell proliferation. negative regulation of T lymphocyte proliferation. negative regulation of T-cell proliferation. negative regulation of T-lymphocyte proliferation. Any process that stops, prevents or reduces the rate or extent of T cell proliferation.
GO:0018193	peptidyl-amino acid modification. The alteration of an amino acid residue in a peptide.
GO:0050965	detection of temperature stimulus involved in sensory perception of pain. perception of pain, detection of temperature stimulus. perception of pain, sensory detection of temperature stimulus. perception of pain, sensory transduction of temperature stimulus. sensory detection of temperature stimulus during perception of pain. sensory detection of thermal stimulus during sensory perception of pain. sensory perception of pain, sensory detection of thermal stimulus. sensory perception of pain, sensory transduction of thermal stimulus. sensory transduction of temperature stimulus during perception of pain. sensory transduction of thermal stimulus during sensory perception of pain. thermal nociception. The series of events involved in the perception of pain in which a temperature stimulus is received and converted into a molecular signal.
GO:0050727	regulation of inflammatory response. Any process that modulates the frequency, rate or extent of the inflammatory response, the immediate defensive reaction (by vertebrate tissue) to infection or injury caused by chemical or physical agents.
GO:0014706	striated muscle tissue development. The process whose specific outcome is the progression of a striated muscle over time, from its formation to the mature structure. Striated muscle contain fibers that are divided by transverse bands into striations, and cardiac and skeletal muscle are types of striated muscle. Skeletal muscle myoblasts fuse to form myotubes and eventually multinucleated muscle fibers. The fusion of cardiac cells is very rare and can only form binucleate cells.
GO:0055080	cation homeostasis. Any process involved in the maintenance of an internal steady state of cations within an organism or cell.
GO:0044093	positive regulation of molecular function. Any process that activates or increases the rate or extent of a molecular function, an elemental biological activity occurring at the molecular level, such as catalysis or binding.
GO:0006068	ethanol catabolic process. ethanol breakdown. ethanol catabolism. ethanol degradation. The chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the breakdown of ethanol, CH3-CH2-OH, a colorless, water-miscible, flammable liquid produced by alcoholic fermentation.
GO:1905208	negative regulation of cardiocyte differentiation. down regulation of cardiac cell differentiation. down regulation of cardiocyte differentiation. down regulation of heart cell differentiation. down-regulation of cardiac cell differentiation. down-regulation of cardiocyte differentiation. down-regulation of heart cell differentiation. downregulation of cardiac cell differentiation. downregulation of cardiocyte differentiation. downregulation of heart cell differentiation. inhibition of cardiac cell differentiation. inhibition of cardiocyte differentiation. inhibition of heart cell differentiation. negative regulation of cardiac cell differentiation. negative regulation of heart cell differentiation. Any process that stops, prevents or reduces the frequency, rate or extent of cardiocyte differentiation.
GO:0043401	steroid hormone mediated signaling pathway. steroid hormone mediated signalling. The series of molecular signals mediated by a steroid hormone binding to a receptor.
GO:0045453	bone resorption. The process in which specialized cells known as osteoclasts degrade the organic and inorganic portions of bone, and endocytose and transport the degradation products.
GO:0035094	response to nicotine. Any process that results in a change in state or activity of a cell or an organism (in terms of movement, secretion, enzyme production, gene expression, etc.) as a result of a nicotine stimulus.
GO:0008625	extrinsic apoptotic signaling pathway via death domain receptors. death receptor-mediated apoptosis. induction of apoptosis via death domain receptors. induction of apoptosis via death receptors. The series of molecular signals in which a signal is conveyed from the cell surface to trigger the apoptotic death of a cell. The pathway starts with a ligand binding to a death domain receptor on the cell surface, and ends when the execution phase of apoptosis is triggered.
GO:0008637	apoptotic mitochondrial changes. The morphological and physiological alterations undergone by mitochondria during apoptosis.
GO:0051346	negative regulation of hydrolase activity. down regulation of hydrolase activity. down-regulation of hydrolase activity. downregulation of hydrolase activity. hydrolase inhibitor. inhibition of hydrolase activity. Any process that stops or reduces the rate of hydrolase activity, the catalysis of the hydrolysis of various bonds.
GO:0061418	regulation of transcription from RNA polymerase II promoter in response to hypoxia. Any process that modulates the frequency, rate or extent of transcription from an RNA polymerase II promoter as a result of a hypoxia stimulus.
GO:0010517	regulation of phospholipase activity. Any process that modulates the frequency, rate or extent of phospholipase activity, the hydrolysis of a phospholipid.
GO:1902170	cellular response to reactive nitrogen species. Any process that results in a change in state or activity of a cell (in terms of movement, secretion, enzyme production, gene expression, etc.) as a result of a reactive nitrogen species stimulus.
GO:0006952	defense response. antimicrobial peptide activity. defence response. defense/immunity protein activity. physiological defense response. Reactions, triggered in response to the presence of a foreign body or the occurrence of an injury, which result in restriction of damage to the organism attacked or prevention/recovery from the infection caused by the attack.
GO:0051303	establishment of chromosome localization. chromosome positioning. establishment of chromosome localisation. The directed movement of a chromosome to a specific location.
GO:0000186	obsolete activation of MAPKK activity. activation of MAP kinase kinase activity. activation of MAP/ERK kinase kinase. activation of MAP2K activity. activation of MAPKK activity during sporulation. positive regulation of MAPKK activity. OBSOLETE. The initiation of the activity of the inactive enzyme MAP kinase kinase (MAPKK).
GO:0035994	response to muscle stretch. Any process that results in a change in state or activity of a cell or an organism (in terms of movement, secretion, enzyme production, gene expression, etc.) as a result of a myofibril being extended beyond its slack length.
GO:0042093	T-helper cell differentiation. helper T cell differentiation. T-helper cell development. The process in which a relatively unspecialized thymocyte acquires specialized features of a T-helper cell.
GO:0016064	immunoglobulin mediated immune response. antibody-mediated immune response. An immune response mediated by immunoglobulins, whether cell-bound or in solution.
GO:0061077	chaperone-mediated protein folding. The process of inhibiting aggregation and assisting in the covalent and noncovalent assembly of single chain polypeptides or multisubunit complexes into the correct tertiary structure that is dependent on interaction with a chaperone.
GO:0046641	positive regulation of alpha-beta T cell proliferation. activation of alpha-beta T cell proliferation. positive regulation of alpha-beta T lymphocyte proliferation. positive regulation of alpha-beta T-cell proliferation. positive regulation of alpha-beta T-lymphocyte proliferation. stimulation of alpha-beta T cell proliferation. up regulation of alpha-beta T cell proliferation. up-regulation of alpha-beta T cell proliferation. upregulation of alpha-beta T cell proliferation. Any process that activates or increases the frequency, rate or extent of alpha-beta T cell proliferation.
GO:0014823	response to activity. response to exercise. Any process that results in a change in state or activity of a cell or an organism (in terms of movement, secretion, enzyme production, gene expression, etc.) as a result of an activity stimulus.
GO:0097305	response to alcohol. process resulting in tolerance to alcohol. Any process that results in a change in state or activity of a cell or an organism (in terms of movement, secretion, enzyme production, gene expression, etc.) as a result of an alcohol stimulus.
GO:0022037	metencephalon development. The process whose specific outcome is the progression of the metencephalon over time, from its formation to the mature structure.
GO:0050731	positive regulation of peptidyl-tyrosine phosphorylation. activation of peptidyl-tyrosine phosphorylation. stimulation of peptidyl-tyrosine phosphorylation. up regulation of peptidyl-tyrosine phosphorylation. up-regulation of peptidyl-tyrosine phosphorylation. upregulation of peptidyl-tyrosine phosphorylation. Any process that activates or increases the frequency, rate or extent of the phosphorylation of peptidyl-tyrosine.
GO:0035272	exocrine system development. Progression of the exocrine system over time, from its formation to a mature structure. The exocrine system is a system of hormones and glands, where the glands secrete straight to a target site via ducts or tubes. The human exocrine system includes the salivary glands, sweat glands and many glands of the digestive system.
GO:1902895	positive regulation of miRNA transcription. activation of pri-miRNA transcription from RNA polymerase II promoter. positive regulation of microRNA gene transcription. positive regulation of pri-miRNA gene transcription. positive regulation of pri-miRNA transcription by RNA polymerase II. positive regulation of pri-miRNA transcription from RNA polymerase II promoter. positive regulation of primary miRNA gene transcription. up regulation of pri-miRNA transcription from RNA polymerase II promoter. up-regulation of pri-miRNA transcription from RNA polymerase II promoter. upregulation of pri-miRNA transcription from RNA polymerase II promoter. Any process that activates or increases the frequency, rate or extent of microRNA (miRNA) gene transcription.
GO:0070613	regulation of protein processing. regulation of protein maturation by peptide bond cleavage. Any process that modulates the frequency, rate or extent of protein processing, a protein maturation process achieved by the cleavage of a peptide bond or bonds within a protein.
GO:0043500	muscle adaptation. muscle plasticity. A process in which muscle adapts, with consequent modifications to structural and/or functional phenotypes, in response to a stimulus. Stimuli include contractile activity, loading conditions, substrate supply, and environmental factors. These adaptive events occur in both muscle fibers and associated structures (motoneurons and capillaries), and they involve alterations in regulatory mechanisms, contractile properties and metabolic capacities.
GO:1901616	organic hydroxy compound catabolic process. organic hydroxy compound breakdown. organic hydroxy compound catabolism. organic hydroxy compound degradation. The chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the breakdown of organic hydroxy compound.
GO:0042762	regulation of sulfur metabolic process. regulation of sulfur metabolism. regulation of sulphur metabolic process. regulation of sulphur metabolism. Any process that modulates the frequency, rate or extent of the chemical reactions and pathways involving sulfur, the nonmetallic element sulfur or compounds that contain sulfur.
GO:0016567	protein ubiquitination. protein ubiquitinylation. protein ubiquitylation. The process in which one or more ubiquitin groups are added to a protein.
GO:0010165	response to X-ray. response to X-ray radiation stimulus. Any process that results in a change in state or activity of a cell or an organism (in terms of movement, secretion, enzyme production, gene expression, etc.) as a result of X-ray radiation. An X-ray is a form of electromagnetic radiation with a wavelength in the range of 10 nanometers to 100 picometers (corresponding to frequencies in the range 30 PHz to 3 EHz).
GO:0009309	amine biosynthetic process. amine anabolism. amine biosynthesis. amine formation. amine synthesis. The chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the formation of any organic compound that is weakly basic in character and contains an amino or a substituted amino group. Amines are called primary, secondary, or tertiary according to whether one, two, or three carbon atoms are attached to the nitrogen atom.
GO:0033692	cellular polysaccharide biosynthetic process. cellular glycan biosynthesis. cellular glycan biosynthetic process. cellular polysaccharide anabolism. cellular polysaccharide biosynthesis. cellular polysaccharide formation. cellular polysaccharide synthesis. The chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the formation of polysaccharides, polymers of many (typically more than 10) monosaccharide residues linked glycosidically, occurring at the level of an individual cell.
GO:0030183	B cell differentiation. B cell development. B lymphocyte differentiation. B-cell differentiation. B-lymphocyte differentiation. The process in which a precursor cell type acquires the specialized features of a B cell. A B cell is a lymphocyte of B lineage with the phenotype CD19-positive and capable of B cell mediated immunity.
GO:0045777	positive regulation of blood pressure. activation of blood pressure. stimulation of blood pressure. up regulation of blood pressure. up-regulation of blood pressure. upregulation of blood pressure. Any process in which the force of blood traveling through the circulatory system is increased.
GO:0060341	regulation of cellular localization. regulation of cellular localisation. Any process that modulates the frequency, rate or extent of a process in which a cell, a substance, or a cellular entity is transported to, or maintained in a specific location within or in the membrane of a cell.
GO:0043954	cellular component maintenance. cellular component maintenance at cellular level. The organization process that preserves a cellular component in a stable functional or structural state.
GO:0045786	negative regulation of cell cycle. down regulation of progression through cell cycle. down-regulation of progression through cell cycle. downregulation of progression through cell cycle. inhibition of progression through cell cycle. negative regulation of cell cycle progression. negative regulation of progression through cell cycle. Any process that stops, prevents or reduces the rate or extent of progression through the cell cycle.
GO:0006984	ER-nucleus signaling pathway. endoplasmic reticulum to nucleus signaling pathway. endoplasmic reticulum-nuclear signaling pathway. ER to nucleus signaling pathway. ER to nucleus signalling pathway. ER-nuclear signaling pathway. ER-nuclear signalling pathway. The series of molecular signals that conveys information from the endoplasmic reticulum to the nucleus, usually resulting in a change in transcriptional regulation.
GO:0006790	sulfur compound metabolic process. sulfur metabolism. sulphur metabolic process. sulphur metabolism. The chemical reactions and pathways involving the nonmetallic element sulfur or compounds that contain sulfur, such as the amino acids methionine and cysteine or the tripeptide glutathione.
GO:0043620	regulation of DNA-templated transcription in response to stress. regulation of DNA-dependent transcription in response to stress. Modulation of the frequency, rate or extent of transcription from a DNA template as a result of a stimulus indicating the organism is under stress. The stress is usually, but not necessarily, exogenous (e.g. temperature, humidity, ionizing radiation).
GO:0006401	RNA catabolic process. RNA breakdown. RNA catabolism. RNA degradation. The chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the breakdown of RNA, ribonucleic acid, one of the two main type of nucleic acid, consisting of a long, unbranched macromolecule formed from ribonucleotides joined in 3',5'-phosphodiester linkage.
GO:0048538	thymus development. The process whose specific outcome is the progression of the thymus over time, from its formation to the mature structure. The thymus is a symmetric bi-lobed organ involved primarily in the differentiation of immature to mature T cells, with unique vascular, nervous, epithelial, and lymphoid cell components.
GO:0015949	nucleobase-containing small molecule interconversion. The chemical reactions and pathways by which a nucleobase, nucleoside or nucleotide small molecule is synthesized from another nucleobase, nucleoside or nucleotide small molecule.
GO:0050867	positive regulation of cell activation. activation of cell activation. stimulation of cell activation. up regulation of cell activation. up-regulation of cell activation. upregulation of cell activation. Any process that activates or increases the frequency, rate or extent of activation.
GO:0015800	acidic amino acid transport. The directed movement of acidic amino acids, amino acids with a pH below 7, into, out of or within a cell, or between cells, by means of some agent such as a transporter or pore.
GO:0042534	regulation of tumor necrosis factor production. regulation of cachectin production. regulation of TNF production. regulation of TNF-alpha production. regulation of tumor necrosis factor biosynthetic process. regulation of tumor necrosis factor secretion. regulation of tumor necrosis factor-alpha production. Any process that modulates the frequency, rate or extent of tumor necrosis factor production.
GO:0043604	amide biosynthetic process. The chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the formation of an amide, any derivative of an oxoacid in which an acidic hydroxy group has been replaced by an amino or substituted amino group.
GO:0015672	inorganic cation transmembrane transport. divalent inorganic cation transport. inorganic cation membrane transport. monovalent inorganic cation transport. transmembrane inorganic cation transport. A process in which an inorganic cation is transported from one side of a membrane to the other by means of some agent such as a transporter or pore.
GO:0034369	plasma lipoprotein particle remodeling. The acquisition, loss or modification of a protein or lipid within a plasma lipoprotein particle, including the hydrolysis of triglyceride by hepatic lipase, with the subsequent loss of free fatty acid, and the esterification of cholesterol by phosphatidylcholine-sterol O-acyltransferase (lecithin cholesterol acyltransferase; LCAT).
GO:0009299	mRNA transcription. cellular mRNA transcription. mRNA biosynthesis. mRNA biosynthetic process. mRNA synthesis. The cellular synthesis of messenger RNA (mRNA) from a DNA template.
GO:1903362	regulation of protein catabolic process. regulation of cellular protein breakdown. regulation of cellular protein catabolic process. regulation of cellular protein catabolism. regulation of cellular protein degradation. regulation of cyclin breakdown. regulation of cyclin catabolic process. regulation of cyclin catabolism. regulation of cyclin degradation. regulation of degradation of cyclin. regulation of protein breakdown. regulation of protein catabolism. regulation of protein degradation. Any process that modulates the frequency, rate or extent of the chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the breakdown of a protein by the destruction of the native, active configuration, with or without the hydrolysis of peptide bonds.
GO:0045944	positive regulation of transcription by RNA polymerase II. activation of global transcription from RNA polymerase II promoter. activation of transcription from RNA polymerase II promoter. positive regulation of gene-specific transcription from RNA polymerase II promoter. positive regulation of global transcription from Pol II promoter. positive regulation of transcription from Pol II promoter. positive regulation of transcription from RNA polymerase II promoter. positive regulation of transcription from RNA polymerase II promoter, global. stimulation of global transcription from RNA polymerase II promoter. stimulation of transcription from RNA polymerase II promoter. up regulation of global transcription from RNA polymerase II promoter. up regulation of transcription from RNA polymerase II promoter. up-regulation of global transcription from RNA polymerase II promoter. up-regulation of transcription from RNA polymerase II promoter. upregulation of global transcription from RNA polymerase II promoter. upregulation of transcription from RNA polymerase II promoter. Any process that activates or increases the frequency, rate or extent of transcription from an RNA polymerase II promoter.
GO:0032508	DNA duplex unwinding. DNA unwinding. duplex DNA melting. The process in which interchain hydrogen bonds between two strands of DNA are broken or 'melted', generating a region of unpaired single strands.
GO:1903351	cellular response to dopamine. Any process that results in a change in state or activity of a cell (in terms of movement, secretion, enzyme production, gene expression, etc.) as a result of a dopamine stimulus.
GO:0009451	RNA modification. RNA editing. The covalent alteration of one or more nucleotides within an RNA molecule to produce an RNA molecule with a sequence that differs from that coded genetically.
GO:0045893	positive regulation of DNA-templated transcription. activation of gene-specific transcription. activation of transcription, DNA-dependent. positive regulation of cellular transcription, DNA-dependent. positive regulation of gene-specific transcription. positive regulation of transcription, DNA-dependent. positive regulation of transcription, DNA-templated. stimulation of gene-specific transcription. stimulation of transcription, DNA-dependent. transcription activator activity. up regulation of gene-specific transcription. up regulation of transcription, DNA-dependent. up-regulation of gene-specific transcription. up-regulation of transcription, DNA-dependent. upregulation of gene-specific transcription. upregulation of transcription, DNA-dependent. Any process that activates or increases the frequency, rate or extent of cellular DNA-templated transcription.
GO:0019674	NAD metabolic process. NAD (oxidized) metabolic process. NAD (oxidized) metabolism. NAD metabolism. NAD phosphorylation and dephosphorylation. nicotinamide adenine dinucleotide metabolic process. nicotinamide adenine dinucleotide metabolism. oxidized NAD metabolic process. oxidized NAD metabolism. oxidized nicotinamide adenine dinucleotide metabolic process. oxidized nicotinamide adenine dinucleotide metabolism. The chemical reactions and pathways involving nicotinamide adenine dinucleotide (NAD), a coenzyme present in most living cells and derived from the B vitamin nicotinic acid.
GO:0036152	phosphatidylethanolamine acyl-chain remodeling. Remodeling the acyl chains of phosphatidylethanolamine, through sequential deacylation and re-acylation reactions, to generate phosphatidylethanolamine containing different types of fatty acid acyl chains.
GO:0000281	mitotic cytokinesis. cytokinesis after mitosis. A cell cycle process that results in the division of the cytoplasm of a cell after mitosis, resulting in the separation of the original cell into two daughter cells.
GO:1901021	positive regulation of calcium ion transmembrane transporter activity. activation of calcium ion transmembrane transporter activity. up regulation of calcium ion transmembrane transporter activity. up-regulation of calcium ion transmembrane transporter activity. upregulation of calcium ion transmembrane transporter activity. Any process that activates or increases the frequency, rate or extent of calcium ion transmembrane transporter activity.
GO:0010629	negative regulation of gene expression. gene silencing. Any process that decreases the frequency, rate or extent of gene expression. Gene expression is the process in which a gene's coding sequence is converted into a mature gene product (protein or RNA).
GO:0046638	positive regulation of alpha-beta T cell differentiation. activation of alpha-beta T cell differentiation. positive regulation of alpha-beta T cell development. positive regulation of alpha-beta T lymphocyte differentiation. positive regulation of alpha-beta T-cell differentiation. positive regulation of alpha-beta T-lymphocyte differentiation. stimulation of alpha-beta T cell differentiation. up regulation of alpha-beta T cell differentiation. up-regulation of alpha-beta T cell differentiation. upregulation of alpha-beta T cell differentiation. Any process that activates or increases the frequency, rate or extent of alpha-beta T cell differentiation.
GO:2001020	regulation of response to DNA damage stimulus. regulation of cellular DNA damage response. regulation of cellular response to DNA damage stimulus. regulation of DNA damage response. regulation of response to genotoxic stress. Any process that modulates the frequency, rate or extent of response to DNA damage stimulus.
GO:0022898	regulation of transmembrane transporter activity. Any process that modulates the frequency, rate or extent of transmembrane transporter activity.
GO:0021762	substantia nigra development. The progression of the substantia nigra over time from its initial formation until its mature state. The substantia nigra is the layer of gray substance that separates the posterior parts of the cerebral peduncles (tegmentum mesencephali) from the anterior parts; it normally includes a posterior compact part with many pigmented cells (pars compacta) and an anterior reticular part whose cells contain little pigment (pars reticularis).
GO:1902749	regulation of cell cycle G2/M phase transition. Any signalling pathway that modulates the activity of a cell cycle cyclin-dependent protein kinase to modulate the switch from G2 phase to M phase of the cell cycle.
GO:0070527	platelet aggregation. blood platelet aggregation. thrombocyte aggregation. The adhesion of one platelet to one or more other platelets via adhesion molecules.
GO:0046329	negative regulation of JNK cascade. down regulation of JNK cascade. down-regulation of JNK cascade. downregulation of JNK cascade. inhibition of JNK cascade. Any process that stops, prevents, or reduces the frequency, rate or extent of signal transduction mediated by the JNK cascade.
GO:0043065	positive regulation of apoptotic process. activation of apoptosis. positive regulation of apoptosis. pro-apoptosis. stimulation of apoptosis. up regulation of apoptosis. up-regulation of apoptosis. upregulation of apoptosis. Any process that activates or increases the frequency, rate or extent of cell death by apoptotic process.
GO:0045773	positive regulation of axon extension. activation of axon extension. stimulation of axon extension. up regulation of axon extension. up-regulation of axon extension. upregulation of axon extension. Any process that activates or increases the frequency, rate or extent of axon extension.
GO:0022011	myelination in peripheral nervous system. peripheral nervous system myelination. The process in which neuronal axons and dendrites become coated with a segmented lipid-rich sheath (myelin) to enable faster and more energetically efficient conduction of electrical impulses. The sheath is formed by the cell membranes of Schwann cells in the peripheral nervous system. Adjacent myelin segments are separated by a non-myelinated stretch of axon called a node of Ranvier.
GO:0051602	response to electrical stimulus. response to electricity. Any process that results in a change in state or activity of a cell or an organism (in terms of movement, secretion, enzyme production, gene expression, etc.) as a result of an electrical stimulus.
GO:0071356	cellular response to tumor necrosis factor. cellular response to TNF. Any process that results in a change in state or activity of a cell (in terms of movement, secretion, enzyme production, gene expression, etc.) as a result of a tumor necrosis factor stimulus.
GO:0046835	carbohydrate phosphorylation. The process of introducing a phosphate group into a carbohydrate, any organic compound based on the general formula Cx(H2O)y.
GO:0009179	purine ribonucleoside diphosphate metabolic process. purine ribonucleoside diphosphate metabolism. The chemical reactions and pathways involving purine ribonucleoside diphosphate, a compound consisting of a purine base linked to a ribose sugar esterified with diphosphate on the sugar.
GO:0010507	negative regulation of autophagy. Any process that stops, prevents, or reduces the frequency, rate or extent of autophagy. Autophagy is the process in which cells digest parts of their own cytoplasm.
GO:0034220	ion transmembrane transport. ATP hydrolysis coupled ion transmembrane transport. ion membrane transport. transmembrane ion transport. A process in which an ion is transported across a membrane.
GO:0071496	cellular response to external stimulus. Any process that results in a change in state or activity of a cell (in terms of movement, secretion, enzyme production, gene expression, etc.) as a result of an external stimulus.
GO:0006081	cellular aldehyde metabolic process. aldehyde metabolism. alkanal metabolic process. alkanal metabolism. The chemical reactions and pathways involving aldehydes, any organic compound with the formula R-CH=O, as carried out by individual cells.
GO:0002088	lens development in camera-type eye. lens development. lens development in camera-style eye. The process whose specific outcome is the progression of the lens over time, from its formation to the mature structure. The lens is a transparent structure in the eye through which light is focused onto the retina. An example of this process is found in Mus musculus.
GO:0060996	dendritic spine development. The process whose specific outcome is the progression of the dendritic spine over time, from its formation to the mature structure. A dendritic spine is a protrusion from a dendrite and a specialized subcellular compartment involved in synaptic transmission.
GO:0009855	determination of bilateral symmetry. determination of bilateral asymmetry. The establishment of an organism's body plan or part of an organism with respect to a single longitudinal plane. The pattern can either be symmetric, such that the halves are mirror images, or asymmetric where the pattern deviates from this symmetry.
GO:0042752	regulation of circadian rhythm. Any process that modulates the frequency, rate or extent of a circadian rhythm. A circadian rhythm is a biological process in an organism that recurs with a regularity of approximately 24 hours.
GO:0044409	entry into host. entry into cell of other organism during symbiotic interaction. entry into cell of other organism involved in symbiotic interaction. entry into host cell. entry into host cell via penetration peg. entry into host through host barriers. entry into host via a specialized structure during symbiotic interaction. entry into host via enzymatic degradation of host anatomical structure. entry into host via enzymatic degradation of host cuticle. entry into other organism during symbiotic interaction. entry into other organism involved in symbiotic interaction. host cell invasion. host invasion. host penetration. invasion into host. invasion into other organism. invasion of host. invasion of other organism. invasive growth. other organism cell invasion. other organism invasion. penetration into host. penetration into host via a specialized structure. penetration into host via a specialized structure during symbiotic interaction. Entry of a symbiont into the body, tissues, or cells of a host organism as part of the symbiont life cycle. The host is defined as the larger of the organisms involved in a symbiotic interaction.
GO:0045471	response to ethanol. Any process that results in a change in state or activity of a cell or an organism (in terms of movement, secretion, enzyme production, gene expression, etc.) as a result of an ethanol stimulus.
GO:0034113	heterotypic cell-cell adhesion. The attachment of a cell to a cell of a different type via adhesion molecules.
GO:0043647	inositol phosphate metabolic process. inositol phosphate metabolism. myo-inositol phosphate metabolic process. myo-inositol phosphate metabolism. The chemical reactions and pathways involving inositol phosphate, 1,2,3,4,5,6-cyclohexanehexol, with one or more phosphate groups attached.
GO:0110020	regulation of actomyosin structure organization. Any process that modulates the frequency, rate or extent of the assembly, arrangement of constituent parts, or disassembly of cytoskeletal structures containing both actin and myosin or paramyosin.
GO:0006475	internal protein amino acid acetylation. The addition of an acetyl group to a non-terminal amino acid in a protein.
GO:0043506	regulation of JUN kinase activity. regulation of JUNK activity. Any process that modulates the frequency, rate or extent of JUN kinase activity.
GO:0007193	adenylate cyclase-inhibiting G protein-coupled receptor signaling pathway. adenylate cyclase-inhibiting GPCR signaling pathway. G protein signaling, adenylate cyclase inhibiting pathway. G protein signaling, adenylyl cyclase inhibiting pathway. G protein signalling, adenylate cyclase inhibiting pathway. G protein signalling, adenylyl cyclase inhibiting pathway. G-protein signaling, adenylate cyclase inhibiting pathway. G-protein signaling, adenylyl cyclase inhibiting pathway. G-protein signalling, adenylate cyclase inhibiting pathway. G-protein signalling, adenylyl cyclase inhibiting pathway. GPCR signaling pathway via inhibition of adenylate cyclase activity. inhibition of adenylate cyclase activity by G-protein signaling pathway. A G protein-coupled receptor signaling pathway in which the signal is transmitted via the inhibition of adenylyl cyclase activity and a subsequent decrease in the intracellular concentration of cyclic AMP (cAMP).
GO:0090344	obsolete negative regulation of cell aging. OBSOLETE. Any process that decreases the rate, frequency, or extent of cell aging. Cell aging is the progression of the cell from its inception to the end of its lifespan.
GO:1904837	beta-catenin-TCF complex assembly. beta-catenin-TCF complex formation. beta-catenin/LEF complex assembly. beta-catenin/LEF complex formation. beta-catenin/lymphoid enhancer binding factor complex assembly. beta-catenin/lymphoid enhancer binding factor complex formation. beta-catenin/T-cell factor complex assembly. beta-catenin/T-cell factor complex formation. The aggregation, arrangement and bonding together of a set of components to form a beta-catenin-TCF complex.
GO:0045830	positive regulation of isotype switching. activation of isotype switching. positive regulation of class switch recombination. positive regulation of class switching. positive regulation of isotype switch recombination. stimulation of isotype switching. up regulation of isotype switching. up-regulation of isotype switching. upregulation of isotype switching. Any process that activates or increases the frequency, rate or extent of isotype switching.
GO:1904355	positive regulation of telomere capping. activation of telomere capping. activation of telomere end protection. positive regulation of telomere end protection. up regulation of telomere capping. up regulation of telomere end protection. up-regulation of telomere capping. up-regulation of telomere end protection. upregulation of telomere capping. upregulation of telomere end protection. Any process that activates or increases the frequency, rate or extent of telomere capping.
GO:1901381	positive regulation of potassium ion transmembrane transport. activation of potassium ion transmembrane transport. positive regulation of potassium ion membrane transport. up regulation of potassium ion transmembrane transport. up-regulation of potassium ion transmembrane transport. upregulation of potassium ion transmembrane transport. Any process that activates or increases the frequency, rate or extent of potassium ion transmembrane transport.
GO:0050769	positive regulation of neurogenesis. activation of neurogenesis. stimulation of neurogenesis. up regulation of neurogenesis. up-regulation of neurogenesis. upregulation of neurogenesis. Any process that activates or increases the frequency, rate or extent of neurogenesis, the generation of cells within the nervous system.
GO:0007160	cell-matrix adhesion. The binding of a cell to the extracellular matrix via adhesion molecules.
GO:0006996	organelle organization. organelle organisation. organelle organization and biogenesis. single organism organelle organization. single-organism organelle organization. A process that is carried out at the cellular level which results in the assembly, arrangement of constituent parts, or disassembly of an organelle within a cell. An organelle is an organized structure of distinctive morphology and function. Includes the nucleus, mitochondria, plastids, vacuoles, vesicles, ribosomes and the cytoskeleton. Excludes the plasma membrane.
GO:0001666	response to hypoxia. response to hypoxic stress. response to intermittent hypoxia. response to lowered oxygen tension. response to sustained hypoxia. Any process that results in a change in state or activity of a cell or an organism (in terms of movement, secretion, enzyme production, gene expression, etc.) as a result of a stimulus indicating lowered oxygen tension. Hypoxia, defined as a decline in O2 levels below normoxic levels of 20.8 - 20.95%, results in metabolic adaptation at both the cellular and organismal level.
GO:0090399	replicative senescence. A cell aging process associated with the dismantling of a cell as a response to telomere shortening and/or cellular aging.
GO:1905818	regulation of chromosome separation. regulation of chromatid release. regulation of rDNA separation. Any process that modulates the frequency, rate or extent of chromosome separation.
GO:0009168	purine ribonucleoside monophosphate biosynthetic process. purine ribonucleoside monophosphate anabolism. purine ribonucleoside monophosphate biosynthesis. purine ribonucleoside monophosphate formation. purine ribonucleoside monophosphate synthesis. The chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the formation of purine ribonucleoside monophosphate, a compound consisting of a purine base linked to a ribose sugar esterified with phosphate on the sugar.
GO:0060395	SMAD protein signal transduction. The cascade of processes by which a signal interacts with a receptor, causing a change in the activity of a SMAD protein, and ultimately effecting a change in the functioning of the cell.
GO:0002092	positive regulation of receptor internalization. activation of receptor internalization. stimulation of receptor internalization. up regulation of receptor internalization. up-regulation of receptor internalization. upregulation of receptor internalization. Any process that activates or increases the frequency, rate or extent of receptor internalization.
GO:0010862	positive regulation of pathway-restricted SMAD protein phosphorylation. Any process that increases the rate, frequency or extent of pathway-restricted SMAD protein phosphorylation. Pathway-restricted SMAD proteins and common-partner SMAD proteins are involved in the transforming growth factor beta receptor signaling pathways.
GO:0007249	I-kappaB kinase/NF-kappaB signaling. activation of the inhibitor of kappa kinase. canonical NF-kappaB signaling cascade. I-kappaB kinase/NF-kappaB cascade. I-kappaB kinase/NF-kappaB signal transduction. NF-kappaB cascade. p50-dependent NF-kappaB signaling. The process in which a signal is passed on to downstream components within the cell through the I-kappaB-kinase (IKK)-dependent activation of NF-kappaB. The cascade begins with activation of a trimeric IKK complex (consisting of catalytic kinase subunits IKKalpha and/or IKKbeta, and the regulatory scaffold protein NEMO) and ends with the regulation of transcription of target genes by NF-kappaB. In a resting state, NF-kappaB dimers are bound to I-kappaB proteins, sequestering NF-kappaB in the cytoplasm. Phosphorylation of I-kappaB targets I-kappaB for ubiquitination and proteasomal degradation, thus releasing the NF-kappaB dimers, which can translocate to the nucleus to bind DNA and regulate transcription.
GO:0030509	BMP signaling pathway. BMP receptor signaling pathway. BMP signalling pathway. bone morphogenetic protein signaling pathway. bone morphogenetic protein signalling pathway. decapentaplegic receptor signaling pathway. decapentaplegic receptor signalling pathway. decapentaplegic signaling pathway. dpp receptor signaling pathway. dpp receptor signalling pathway. dpp signaling pathway. The series of molecular signals initiated by the binding of a member of the BMP (bone morphogenetic protein) family to a receptor on the surface of a target cell, and ending with the regulation of a downstream cellular process, e.g. transcription.
GO:0051004	regulation of lipoprotein lipase activity. Any process that modulates the activity of the enzyme lipoprotein lipase.
GO:1902532	negative regulation of intracellular signal transduction. down regulation of intracellular signal transduction. down regulation of intracellular signal transduction pathway. down regulation of intracellular signaling cascade. down regulation of intracellular signaling chain. down regulation of intracellular signaling pathway. down regulation of signal transduction via intracellular signaling cascade. down regulation of signal transmission via intracellular cascade. down-regulation of intracellular signal transduction. down-regulation of intracellular signal transduction pathway. down-regulation of intracellular signaling cascade. down-regulation of intracellular signaling chain. down-regulation of intracellular signaling pathway. down-regulation of signal transduction via intracellular signaling cascade. down-regulation of signal transmission via intracellular cascade. downregulation of intracellular signal transduction. downregulation of intracellular signal transduction pathway. downregulation of intracellular signaling cascade. downregulation of intracellular signaling chain. downregulation of intracellular signaling pathway. downregulation of signal transduction via intracellular signaling cascade. downregulation of signal transmission via intracellular cascade. inhibition of intracellular signal transduction. inhibition of intracellular signal transduction pathway. inhibition of intracellular signaling cascade. inhibition of intracellular signaling chain. inhibition of intracellular signaling pathway. inhibition of signal transduction via intracellular signaling cascade. inhibition of signal transmission via intracellular cascade. negative regulation of intracellular protein kinase cascade. negative regulation of intracellular signal transduction pathway. negative regulation of intracellular signaling cascade. negative regulation of intracellular signaling chain. negative regulation of intracellular signaling pathway. negative regulation of signal transduction via intracellular signaling cascade. negative regulation of signal transmission via intracellular cascade. Any process that stops, prevents or reduces the frequency, rate or extent of intracellular signal transduction.
GO:0030879	mammary gland development. mammogenesis. The process whose specific outcome is the progression of the mammary gland over time, from its formation to the mature structure. The mammary gland is a large compound sebaceous gland that in female mammals is modified to secrete milk. Its development starts with the formation of the mammary line and ends as the mature gland cycles between nursing and weaning stages.
GO:0001974	blood vessel remodeling. The reorganization or renovation of existing blood vessels.
GO:0009636	response to toxic substance. detoxification response. toxin resistance. toxin susceptibility/resistance. Any process that results in a change in state or activity of a cell or an organism (in terms of movement, secretion, enzyme production, gene expression, etc.) as a result of a toxic stimulus.
GO:0003007	heart morphogenesis. cardiac morphogenesis. The developmental process in which the heart is generated and organized. The heart is a hollow, muscular organ, which, by contracting rhythmically, keeps up the circulation of the blood.
GO:0030856	regulation of epithelial cell differentiation. Any process that modulates the frequency, rate or extent of epithelial cell differentiation.
GO:0006979	response to oxidative stress. Any process that results in a change in state or activity of a cell or an organism (in terms of movement, secretion, enzyme production, gene expression, etc.) as a result of oxidative stress, a state often resulting from exposure to high levels of reactive oxygen species, e.g. superoxide anions, hydrogen peroxide (H2O2), and hydroxyl radicals.
GO:0070542	response to fatty acid. Any process that results in a change in state or activity of a cell or an organism (in terms of movement, secretion, enzyme production, gene expression, etc.) as a result of a fatty acid stimulus.
GO:0009205	purine ribonucleoside triphosphate metabolic process. purine ribonucleoside triphosphate metabolism. The chemical reactions and pathways involving purine ribonucleoside triphosphate, a compound consisting of a purine base linked to a ribose sugar esterified with triphosphate on the sugar.
GO:0046134	pyrimidine nucleoside biosynthetic process. pyrimidine nucleoside anabolism. pyrimidine nucleoside biosynthesis. pyrimidine nucleoside formation. pyrimidine nucleoside synthesis. The chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the formation of one of a family of organic molecules consisting of a pyrimidine base covalently bonded to a sugar ribose (a ribonucleoside) or deoxyribose (a deoxyribonucleoside).
GO:0006974	cellular response to DNA damage stimulus. cellular DNA damage response. DNA damage response. response to DNA damage stimulus. response to genotoxic stress. Any process that results in a change in state or activity of a cell (in terms of movement, secretion, enzyme production, gene expression, etc.) as a result of a stimulus indicating damage to its DNA from environmental insults or errors during metabolism.
GO:0043252	sodium-independent organic anion transport. The directed, sodium-independent, movement of organic anions into, out of or within a cell, or between cells, by means of some agent such as a transporter or pore.
GO:0048679	regulation of axon regeneration. Any process that modulates the frequency, rate or extent of axon regeneration.
GO:0007194	negative regulation of adenylate cyclase activity. adenylate cyclase inhibitor. down regulation of adenylate cyclase activity. down-regulation of adenylate cyclase activity. downregulation of adenylate cyclase activity. inhibition of adenylate cyclase activity. negative regulation of adenylyl cyclase activity. Any process that stops, prevents, or reduces the frequency, rate or extent of adenylate cyclase activity.
GO:0018394	peptidyl-lysine acetylation. The acetylation of peptidyl-lysine.
GO:0048469	cell maturation. functional differentiation. A developmental process, independent of morphogenetic (shape) change, that is required for a cell to attain its fully functional state.
GO:0002011	morphogenesis of an epithelial sheet. The process in which the anatomical structures of an epithelial sheet are generated and organized. An epithelial sheet is a flat surface consisting of closely packed epithelial cells.
GO:0010939	regulation of necrotic cell death. Any process that modulates the rate, frequency or extent of necrotic cell death. Necrotic cell death is a cell death process that is morphologically characterized by a gain in cell volume (oncosis), swelling of organelles, plasma membrane rupture and subsequent loss of intracellular contents.
GO:0007169	transmembrane receptor protein tyrosine kinase signaling pathway. transmembrane receptor protein tyrosine kinase signalling pathway. The series of molecular signals initiated by an extracellular ligand binding to a receptor on the surface of the target cell where the receptor possesses tyrosine kinase activity, and ending with the regulation of a downstream cellular process, e.g. transcription.
GO:0010557	positive regulation of macromolecule biosynthetic process. Any process that increases the rate, frequency or extent of the chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the formation of a macromolecule, any molecule of high relative molecular mass, the structure of which essentially comprises the multiple repetition of units derived, actually or conceptually, from molecules of low relative molecular mass.
GO:0006739	NADP metabolic process. NAD phosphorylation and dephosphorylation. NADP (oxidized) metabolic process. NADP (oxidized) metabolism. NADP (reduced) metabolic process. NADP (reduced) metabolism. NADP metabolism. NADPH metabolic process. NADPH metabolism. nicotinamide adenine dinucleotide phosphate metabolic process. nicotinamide adenine dinucleotide phosphate metabolism. oxidized NADP metabolic process. oxidized NADP metabolism. oxidized nicotinamide adenine dinucleotide phosphate metabolic process. oxidized nicotinamide adenine dinucleotide phosphate metabolism. reduced NADP metabolic process. reduced NADP metabolism. reduced nicotinamide adenine dinucleotide phosphate metabolic process. reduced nicotinamide adenine dinucleotide phosphate metabolism. The chemical reactions and pathways involving nicotinamide-adenine dinucleotide phosphate, a coenzyme involved in many redox and biosynthetic reactions; metabolism may be of either the oxidized form, NADP, or the reduced form, NADPH.
GO:0007585	respiratory gaseous exchange by respiratory system. breathing. respiration. The process of gaseous exchange between an organism and its environment. In plants, microorganisms, and many small animals, air or water makes direct contact with the organism's cells or tissue fluids, and the processes of diffusion supply the organism with dioxygen (O2) and remove carbon dioxide (CO2). In larger animals the efficiency of gaseous exchange is improved by specialized respiratory organs, such as lungs and gills, which are ventilated by breathing mechanisms.
GO:0034391	regulation of smooth muscle cell apoptotic process. regulation of SMC apoptosis. regulation of smooth muscle cell apoptosis. Any process that modulates the frequency, rate, or extent of smooth muscle cell apoptotic process.
GO:1902254	negative regulation of intrinsic apoptotic signaling pathway by p53 class mediator. down regulation of intrinsic apoptotic signaling pathway by p53 class mediator. down regulation of intrinsic apoptotic signaling pathway by signal transduction by p53 class mediator. down regulation of signal transduction by p53 class mediator resulting in induction of apoptosis. down-regulation of intrinsic apoptotic signaling pathway by p53 class mediator. down-regulation of intrinsic apoptotic signaling pathway by signal transduction by p53 class mediator. down-regulation of signal transduction by p53 class mediator resulting in induction of apoptosis. downregulation of intrinsic apoptotic signaling pathway by p53 class mediator. downregulation of intrinsic apoptotic signaling pathway by signal transduction by p53 class mediator. downregulation of signal transduction by p53 class mediator resulting in induction of apoptosis. inhibition of intrinsic apoptotic signaling pathway by p53 class mediator. inhibition of intrinsic apoptotic signaling pathway by signal transduction by p53 class mediator. inhibition of signal transduction by p53 class mediator resulting in induction of apoptosis. negative regulation of intrinsic apoptotic signaling pathway by signal transduction by p53 class mediator. negative regulation of signal transduction by p53 class mediator resulting in induction of apoptosis. Any process that stops, prevents or reduces the frequency, rate or extent of intrinsic apoptotic signaling pathway by p53 class mediator.
GO:0042633	hair cycle. The cyclical phases of growth (anagen), regression (catagen), quiescence (telogen), and shedding (exogen) in the life of a hair; one of the collection or mass of filaments growing from the skin of an animal, and forming a covering for a part of the head or for any part or the whole of the body.
GO:0009725	response to hormone. growth regulator. response to hormone stimulus. Any process that results in a change in state or activity of a cell or an organism (in terms of movement, secretion, enzyme production, gene expression, etc.) as a result of a hormone stimulus.
GO:1902175	regulation of oxidative stress-induced intrinsic apoptotic signaling pathway. regulation of intrinsic apoptotic signaling pathway in response to oxidative stress. Any process that modulates the frequency, rate or extent of an oxidative stress-induced intrinsic apoptotic signaling pathway.
GO:0051099	positive regulation of binding. activation of binding. stimulation of binding. up regulation of binding. up-regulation of binding. upregulation of binding. Any process that activates or increases the rate or extent of binding, the selective interaction of a molecule with one or more specific sites on another molecule.
GO:0098868	bone growth. The increase in size or mass of a bone that contributes to the shaping of that bone.
GO:0099024	plasma membrane invagination. An infolding of the plasma membrane.
GO:0070423	nucleotide-binding oligomerization domain containing signaling pathway. NOD signaling pathway. nucleotide-binding oligomerization domain containing signalling pathway. The series of molecular signals initiated by the binding of a ligand (such as a bacterial peptidoglycan) to a cytoplasmic nucleotide-binding oligomerization domain containing (NOD) protein receptor, and ending with regulation of a downstream cellular process.
GO:0014065	phosphatidylinositol 3-kinase signaling. phosphatidylinositol 3-kinase cascade. phosphatidylinositol 3-kinase signal transduction. phosphoinositide 3-kinase cascade. PI 3-kinase cascade. PI3K cascade. PI3K signal transduction. PI3K signaling. A series of reactions within the signal-receiving cell, mediated by the intracellular phosphatidylinositol 3-kinase (PI3K). Many cell surface receptor linked signaling pathways signal through PI3K to regulate numerous cellular functions.
GO:0031327	negative regulation of cellular biosynthetic process. down regulation of cellular biosynthetic process. down-regulation of cellular biosynthetic process. downregulation of cellular biosynthetic process. inhibition of cellular biosynthetic process. negative regulation of cellular anabolism. negative regulation of cellular biosynthesis. negative regulation of cellular formation. negative regulation of cellular synthesis. Any process that stops, prevents, or reduces the frequency, rate or extent of the chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the formation of substances, carried out by individual cells.
GO:0044272	sulfur compound biosynthetic process. sulfur biosynthesis. sulfur biosynthetic process. sulfur compound anabolism. sulfur compound biosynthesis. sulfur compound formation. sulfur compound synthesis. The chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the formation of compounds that contain sulfur, such as the amino acids methionine and cysteine or the tripeptide glutathione.
GO:0014003	oligodendrocyte development. oligodendrocyte cell development. The process aimed at the progression of an oligodendrocyte over time, from initial commitment of the cell to a specific fate, to the fully functional differentiated cell. An oligodendrocyte is a type of glial cell involved in myelinating the axons in the central nervous system.
GO:0060749	mammary gland alveolus development. The progression of the mammary gland alveolus over time, from its formation to its mature state. The mammary gland alveolus is a sac-like structure that is found in the mature gland.
GO:0050804	modulation of chemical synaptic transmission. modulation of synaptic transmission. regulation of chemical synaptic transmission. regulation of synaptic transmission. Any process that modulates the frequency or amplitude of synaptic transmission, the process of communication from a neuron to a target (neuron, muscle, or secretory cell) across a synapse.  Amplitude, in this case, refers to the change in postsynaptic membrane potential due to a single instance of synaptic transmission.
GO:0010467	gene expression. The process in which a gene's sequence is converted into a mature gene product (protein or RNA). This includes the production of an RNA transcript and its processing, translation and maturation for protein-coding genes.
GO:0010888	negative regulation of lipid storage. Any process that decreases the rate, frequency or extent of lipid storage. Lipid storage is the accumulation and maintenance in cells or tissues of lipids, compounds soluble in organic solvents but insoluble or sparingly soluble in aqueous solvents. Lipid reserves can be accumulated during early developmental stages for mobilization and utilization at later stages of development.
GO:0007006	mitochondrial membrane organization. mitochondrial membrane organisation. mitochondrial membrane organization and biogenesis. A process that is carried out at the cellular level which results in the assembly, arrangement of constituent parts, or disassembly of a mitochondrial membrane, either of the lipid bilayer surrounding a mitochondrion.
GO:0060317	cardiac epithelial to mesenchymal transition. heart epithelial to mesenchymal transition. A transition where a cardiac epithelial cell loses apical/basolateral polarity, severs intercellular adhesive junctions, degrades basement membrane components and becomes a migratory mesenchymal cell.
GO:0048661	positive regulation of smooth muscle cell proliferation. activation of smooth muscle cell proliferation. positive regulation of SMC proliferation. stimulation of smooth muscle cell proliferation. up regulation of smooth muscle cell proliferation. up-regulation of smooth muscle cell proliferation. upregulation of smooth muscle cell proliferation. Any process that activates or increases the rate or extent of smooth muscle cell proliferation.
GO:0003091	renal water homeostasis. water homeostasis by the renal system. Renal process involved in the maintenance of an internal steady state of water in the body.
GO:0045840	positive regulation of mitotic nuclear division. activation of mitosis. mitogenic activity. positive regulation of mitosis. stimulation of mitosis. up regulation of mitosis. up-regulation of mitosis. upregulation of mitosis. Any process that activates or increases the frequency, rate or extent of mitosis.
GO:1903053	regulation of extracellular matrix organization. regulation of extracellular matrix organisation. regulation of extracellular matrix organization and biogenesis. Any process that modulates the frequency, rate or extent of extracellular matrix organization.
GO:0051240	positive regulation of multicellular organismal process. activation of multicellular organismal process. stimulation of multicellular organismal process. up regulation of multicellular organismal process. up-regulation of multicellular organismal process. upregulation of multicellular organismal process. Any process that activates or increases the frequency, rate or extent of an organismal process, any of the processes pertinent to the function of an organism above the cellular level; includes the integrated processes of tissues and organs.
GO:0010564	regulation of cell cycle process. Any process that modulates a cellular process that is involved in the progression of biochemical and morphological phases and events that occur in a cell during successive cell replication or nuclear replication events.
GO:0006334	nucleosome assembly. histone chaperone. nucleosome modeling. The aggregation, arrangement and bonding together of a nucleosome, the beadlike structural units of eukaryotic chromatin composed of histones and DNA.
GO:0043583	ear development. hearing organ development. The process whose specific outcome is the progression of the ear over time, from its formation to the mature structure. The ear is the sense organ in vertebrates that is specialized for the detection of sound, and the maintenance of balance. Includes the outer ear and middle ear, which collect and transmit sound waves; and the inner ear, which contains the organs of balance and (except in fish) hearing. Also includes the pinna, the visible part of the outer ear, present in some mammals.
GO:0031503	protein-containing complex localization. cellular protein complex localisation. cellular protein complex localization. cellular protein-containing complex localization. establishment and maintenance of cellular protein complex localization. establishment and maintenance of protein complex localization. protein complex localisation. protein complex localization. A localization process that acts on a protein complex; the complex is transported to, or maintained in, a specific location.
GO:0009416	response to light stimulus. Any process that results in a change in state or activity of a cell or an organism (in terms of movement, secretion, enzyme production, gene expression, etc.) as a result of a light stimulus, electromagnetic radiation of wavelengths classified as infrared, visible or ultraviolet light.
GO:0098781	ncRNA transcription. The transcription of non (protein) coding RNA from a DNA template.
GO:0006164	purine nucleotide biosynthetic process. purine nucleotide anabolism. purine nucleotide biosynthesis. purine nucleotide formation. purine nucleotide synthesis. The chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the formation of a purine nucleotide, a compound consisting of nucleoside (a purine base linked to a deoxyribose or ribose sugar) esterified with a phosphate group at either the 3' or 5'-hydroxyl group of the sugar.
GO:0009628	response to abiotic stimulus. response to abiotic stress. Any process that results in a change in state or activity of a cell or an organism (in terms of movement, secretion, enzyme production, gene expression, etc.) as a result of an abiotic (not derived from living organisms) stimulus.
GO:0019218	regulation of steroid metabolic process. regulation of steroid metabolism. Any process that modulates the frequency, rate or extent of the chemical reactions and pathways involving steroids.
GO:0048265	response to pain. physiological response to pain. Any process that results in a change in state or activity of a cell or an organism (in terms of movement, secretion, enzyme production, gene expression, etc.) as a result of a pain stimulus. Pain stimuli cause activation of nociceptors, peripheral receptors for pain, include receptors which are sensitive to painful mechanical stimuli, extreme heat or cold, and chemical stimuli.
GO:1903363	negative regulation of protein catabolic process. down regulation of cellular protein breakdown. down regulation of cellular protein catabolic process. down regulation of cellular protein catabolism. down regulation of cellular protein degradation. down regulation of protein catabolic process. down-regulation of cellular protein breakdown. down-regulation of cellular protein catabolic process. down-regulation of cellular protein catabolism. down-regulation of cellular protein degradation. down-regulation of protein catabolic process. downregulation of cellular protein breakdown. downregulation of cellular protein catabolic process. downregulation of cellular protein catabolism. downregulation of cellular protein degradation. downregulation of protein catabolic process. inhibition of cellular protein breakdown. inhibition of cellular protein catabolic process. inhibition of cellular protein catabolism. inhibition of cellular protein degradation. inhibition of protein catabolic process. negative regulation of cellular protein breakdown. negative regulation of cellular protein catabolic process. negative regulation of cellular protein catabolism. negative regulation of cellular protein degradation. negative regulation of protein breakdown. negative regulation of protein catabolism. negative regulation of protein degradation. Any process that stops, prevents or reduces the frequency, rate or extent of protein catabolic process.
GO:0050858	negative regulation of antigen receptor-mediated signaling pathway. down regulation of antigen receptor-mediated signaling pathway. down-regulation of antigen receptor-mediated signaling pathway. downregulation of antigen receptor-mediated signaling pathway. inhibition of antigen receptor-mediated signaling pathway. negative regulation of antigen receptor mediated signalling pathway. Any process that stops, prevents, or reduces the frequency, rate or extent of signaling pathways initiated by the cross-linking of an antigen receptor on a B- or T cell.
GO:0009311	oligosaccharide metabolic process. multicellular organismal oligosaccharide metabolic process. oligosaccharide metabolism. The chemical reactions and pathways involving oligosaccharides, molecules with between two and (about) 20 monosaccharide residues connected by glycosidic linkages.
GO:0045834	positive regulation of lipid metabolic process. activation of lipid metabolic process. positive regulation of lipid metabolism. stimulation of lipid metabolic process. up regulation of lipid metabolic process. up-regulation of lipid metabolic process. upregulation of lipid metabolic process. Any process that activates or increases the frequency, rate or extent of the chemical reactions and pathways involving lipids.
GO:0010569	regulation of double-strand break repair via homologous recombination. Any process that modulates the frequency, rate or extent of the error-free repair of a double-strand break in DNA in which the broken DNA molecule is repaired using homologous sequences.
GO:0022402	cell cycle process. The cellular process that ensures successive accurate and complete genome replication and chromosome segregation.
GO:0045624	positive regulation of T-helper cell differentiation. activation of T-helper cell differentiation. positive regulation of T-helper cell development. stimulation of T-helper cell differentiation. up regulation of T-helper cell differentiation. up-regulation of T-helper cell differentiation. upregulation of T-helper cell differentiation. Any process that activates or increases the frequency, rate or extent of T-helper cell differentiation.
GO:0048771	tissue remodeling. The reorganization or renovation of existing tissues. This process can either change the characteristics of a tissue such as in blood vessel remodeling, or result in the dynamic equilibrium of a tissue such as in bone remodeling.
GO:0007610	behavior. behavioral response to stimulus. behaviour. behavioural response to stimulus. single-organism behavior. The internally coordinated responses (actions or inactions) of animals (individuals or groups) to internal or external stimuli, via a mechanism that involves nervous system activity.
GO:0022607	cellular component assembly. cell structure assembly. cellular component assembly at cellular level. The aggregation, arrangement and bonding together of a cellular component.
GO:0050878	regulation of body fluid levels. Any process that modulates the levels of body fluids.
GO:0097009	energy homeostasis. negative regulation of energy homeostasis. positive regulation of energy homeostasis. regulation of energy homeostasis. Any process involved in the balance between food intake (energy input) and energy expenditure.
GO:1903959	regulation of anion transmembrane transport. Any process that modulates the frequency, rate or extent of anion transmembrane transport.
GO:1903146	regulation of autophagy of mitochondrion. regulation of mitochondrion degradation. Any process that modulates the frequency, rate or extent of mitochondrion degradation by an autophagic process.
GO:0006221	pyrimidine nucleotide biosynthetic process. pyrimidine nucleotide anabolism. pyrimidine nucleotide biosynthesis. pyrimidine nucleotide formation. pyrimidine nucleotide synthesis. The chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the formation of a pyrimidine nucleotide, a compound consisting of nucleoside (a pyrimidine base linked to a deoxyribose or ribose sugar) esterified with a phosphate group at either the 3' or 5'-hydroxyl group of the sugar.
GO:0050849	negative regulation of calcium-mediated signaling. down regulation of calcium-mediated signaling. down-regulation of calcium-mediated signaling. downregulation of calcium-mediated signaling. inhibition of calcium-mediated signaling. negative regulation of calcium-mediated signalling. Any process that stops, prevents, or reduces the frequency, rate or extent of calcium-mediated signaling.
GO:0071222	cellular response to lipopolysaccharide. cellular response to endotoxin. cellular response to LPS. Any process that results in a change in state or activity of a cell (in terms of movement, secretion, enzyme production, gene expression, etc.) as a result of a lipopolysaccharide stimulus; lipopolysaccharide is a major component of the cell wall of gram-negative bacteria.
GO:0010906	regulation of glucose metabolic process. regulation of glucose metabolism. Any process that modulates the rate, frequency or extent of glucose metabolism. Glucose metabolic processes are the chemical reactions and pathways involving glucose, the aldohexose gluco-hexose.
GO:0071363	cellular response to growth factor stimulus. Any process that results in a change in state or activity of a cell (in terms of movement, secretion, enzyme production, gene expression, etc.) as a result of a growth factor stimulus.
GO:0061024	membrane organization. cellular membrane organisation. cellular membrane organization. membrane organisation. membrane organization and biogenesis. single-organism membrane organization. A process which results in the assembly, arrangement of constituent parts, or disassembly of a membrane. A membrane is a double layer of lipid molecules that encloses all cells, and, in eukaryotes, many organelles; may be a single or double lipid bilayer; also includes associated proteins.
GO:1901020	negative regulation of calcium ion transmembrane transporter activity. down regulation of calcium ion transmembrane transporter activity. down-regulation of calcium ion transmembrane transporter activity. downregulation of calcium ion transmembrane transporter activity. inhibition of calcium ion transmembrane transporter activity. Any process that stops, prevents or reduces the frequency, rate or extent of calcium ion transmembrane transporter activity.
GO:0034614	cellular response to reactive oxygen species. cellular response to active oxygen species. cellular response to AOS. cellular response to reactive oxidative species. cellular response to reactive oxygen intermediate. cellular response to ROI. cellular response to ROS. Any process that results in a change in state or activity of a cell (in terms of movement, secretion, enzyme production, gene expression, etc.) as a result of a reactive oxygen species stimulus. Reactive oxygen species include singlet oxygen, superoxide, and oxygen free radicals.
GO:0043933	protein-containing complex organization. cellular macromolecular complex organization. cellular macromolecular complex subunit organisation. cellular macromolecular complex subunit organization. macromolecular complex organization. macromolecular complex subunit organisation. macromolecular complex subunit organization. protein complex subunit organisation. protein complex subunit organization. protein-containing complex subunit organization. Any process in which macromolecules aggregate, disaggregate, or are modified, resulting in the formation, disassembly, or alteration of a protein complex.
GO:0002429	immune response-activating cell surface receptor signaling pathway. activation of immune response by cell surface receptor signaling pathway. immune response-activating cell surface receptor signalling pathway. The series of molecular signals initiated by an extracellular ligand binding to a receptor on the surface of a cell capable of activating or perpetuating an immune response.
GO:0043651	linoleic acid metabolic process. linoleic acid metabolism. The chemical reactions and pathways involving linoleic acid, an unsaturated omega-6 fatty acid that has the molecular formula C18H32O2.
GO:0002691	regulation of cellular extravasation. Any process that modulates the frequency, rate, or extent of cellular extravasation.
GO:0071380	cellular response to prostaglandin E stimulus. Any process that results in a change in state or activity of a cell (in terms of movement, secretion, enzyme production, gene expression, etc.) as a result of a prostagladin E stimulus.
GO:0006094	gluconeogenesis. glucose biosynthesis. glucose biosynthetic process. The formation of glucose from noncarbohydrate precursors, such as pyruvate, amino acids and glycerol.
GO:0033273	response to vitamin. Any process that results in a change in state or activity of a cell or an organism (in terms of movement, secretion, enzyme production, gene expression, etc.) as a result of a vitamin stimulus.
GO:0010038	response to metal ion. heavy metal sensitivity/resistance. response to heavy metal. response to metal. Any process that results in a change in state or activity of a cell or an organism (in terms of movement, secretion, enzyme production, gene expression, etc.) as a result of a metal ion stimulus.
GO:0015909	long-chain fatty acid transport. The directed movement of long-chain fatty acids into, out of or within a cell, or between cells, by means of some agent such as a transporter or pore. A long-chain fatty acid is a fatty acid with a chain length between C13 and C22.
GO:0090287	regulation of cellular response to growth factor stimulus. Any process that modulates the rate, frequency, or extent of a change in state or activity of a cell (in terms of movement, secretion, enzyme production, gene expression, etc.) as a result of a growth factor stimulus.
GO:0016477	cell migration. The controlled self-propelled movement of a cell from one site to a destination guided by molecular cues. Cell migration is a central process in the development and maintenance of multicellular organisms.
GO:0032228	regulation of synaptic transmission, GABAergic. Any process that modulates the frequency, rate or extent of GABAergic synaptic transmission, the process of communication from a neuron to another neuron across a synapse using the neurotransmitter gamma-aminobutyric acid (GABA).
GO:0048736	appendage development. The process whose specific outcome is the progression of an appendage over time, from its formation to the mature structure. An appendage is an organ or part that is attached to the trunk of an organism, such as a limb or a branch.
GO:0046461	neutral lipid catabolic process. neutral lipid breakdown. neutral lipid catabolism. neutral lipid degradation. The chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the breakdown of neutral lipids, lipids only soluble in solvents of very low polarity.
GO:0071353	cellular response to interleukin-4. cellular response to IL-4. Any process that results in a change in state or activity of a cell (in terms of movement, secretion, enzyme production, gene expression, etc.) as a result of an interleukin-4 stimulus.
GO:0016239	positive regulation of macroautophagy. activation of macroautophagy. positive regulation of starvation-induced autophagy. stimulation of macroautophagy. up regulation of macroautophagy. up-regulation of macroautophagy. upregulation of macroautophagy. Any process, such as recognition of nutrient depletion, that activates or increases the rate of macroautophagy to bring cytosolic macromolecules to the vacuole/lysosome for degradation.
GO:0033043	regulation of organelle organization. regulation of organelle organisation. regulation of organelle organization and biogenesis. Any process that modulates the frequency, rate or extent of a process involved in the formation, arrangement of constituent parts, or disassembly of an organelle.
GO:0061311	cell surface receptor signaling pathway involved in heart development. cell surface receptor linked signaling pathway involved in heart development. cell surface receptor linked signalling pathway involved in heart development. The series of molecular signals initiated by a ligand the binding to its receptor on the surface of a cell, which contributes to the progression of the heart over time.
GO:0021695	cerebellar cortex development. The process whose specific outcome is the progression of the cerebellar cortex over time, from its formation to the mature structure. The cerebellar cortex is a thin mantle of gray matter that covers the surface of each cerebral hemisphere. It has a characteristic morphology with convolutions (gyri) and crevices (sulci) that have specific functions. Six layers of nerve cells and the nerve pathways that connect them comprise the cerebellar cortex. Together, these regions are responsible for the processes of conscious thought, perception, emotion and memory as well as advanced motor function.
GO:0051851	modulation by host of symbiont process. modification by host of symbiont morphology or physiology. The process in which an organism effects a change in the structure or processes of a symbiont organism. The symbiont is defined as the smaller of the organisms involved in a symbiotic interaction.
GO:0038128	ERBB2 signaling pathway. ERBB2 signalling pathway. HER2 signaling pathway. NEU signaling. receptor tyrosine-protein kinase erbB-2 signaling pathway. The series of molecular signals initiated by binding of a ligand to the tyrosine kinase receptor ERBB2 on the surface of a cell. The pathway ends with regulation of a downstream cellular process, e.g. transcription. ERBB2 receptors are themselves unable to bind to ligands, but act as a signal-amplifying tyrosine kinase within a heterodimeric pair.
GO:0023061	signal release. signal secretion. The process in which a signal is secreted or discharged into the extracellular medium from a cellular source.
GO:0050830	defense response to Gram-positive bacterium. defence response to Gram-positive bacteria. defence response to Gram-positive bacterium. defense response to Gram-positive bacteria. Gram-positive antibacterial peptide activity. Reactions triggered in response to the presence of a Gram-positive bacterium that act to protect the cell or organism.
GO:0001953	negative regulation of cell-matrix adhesion. down regulation of cell-matrix adhesion. down-regulation of cell-matrix adhesion. downregulation of cell-matrix adhesion. inhibition of cell-matrix adhesion. Any process that stops, prevents, or reduces the rate or extent of cell adhesion to the extracellular matrix.
GO:0048255	mRNA stabilization. Prevention of degradation of mRNA molecules. In the absence of compensating changes in other processes, the slowing of mRNA degradation can result in an overall increase in the population of active mRNA molecules.
GO:0045576	mast cell activation. The change in morphology and behavior of a mast cell resulting from exposure to a cytokine, chemokine, soluble factor, or to (at least in mammals) an antigen which the mast cell has specifically bound via IgE bound to Fc-epsilonRI receptors.
GO:0001937	negative regulation of endothelial cell proliferation. down regulation of endothelial cell proliferation. down-regulation of endothelial cell proliferation. downregulation of endothelial cell proliferation. inhibition of endothelial cell proliferation. Any process that stops, prevents, or reduces the rate or extent of endothelial cell proliferation.
GO:0033138	positive regulation of peptidyl-serine phosphorylation. Any process that activates or increases the frequency, rate or extent of the phosphorylation of peptidyl-serine.
GO:0045921	positive regulation of exocytosis. activation of exocytosis. stimulation of exocytosis. up regulation of exocytosis. up-regulation of exocytosis. upregulation of exocytosis. Any process that activates or increases the frequency, rate or extent of exocytosis.
GO:0010677	negative regulation of cellular carbohydrate metabolic process. Any process that decreases the rate, extent or frequency of the chemical reactions and pathways involving carbohydrates, any of a group of organic compounds based of the general formula Cx(H2O)y, as carried out by individual cells.
GO:0031532	actin cytoskeleton reorganization. actin cytoskeleton remodeling. actin cytoskeleton reorganisation. A process that is carried out at the cellular level which results in dynamic structural changes to the arrangement of constituent parts of cytoskeletal structures comprising actin filaments and their associated proteins.
GO:0061384	heart trabecula morphogenesis. The process of shaping a trabecula in the heart. A trabecula is a small, often microscopic, tissue element in the form of a small beam, strut or rod, which generally has a mechanical function. Trabecula are usually but not necessarily, composed of dense collagenous tissue.
GO:0016042	lipid catabolic process. lipid breakdown. lipid catabolism. lipid degradation. lipolysis. multicellular organism lipid catabolic process. multicellular organismal lipid catabolic process. The chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the breakdown of lipids, compounds soluble in an organic solvent but not, or sparingly, in an aqueous solvent.
GO:0048706	embryonic skeletal system development. embryonic skeletal development. The process, occurring during the embryonic phase, whose specific outcome is the progression of the skeleton over time, from its formation to the mature structure.
GO:0051495	positive regulation of cytoskeleton organization. activation of cytoskeleton organization. positive regulation of cytoskeleton organisation. positive regulation of cytoskeleton organization and biogenesis. stimulation of cytoskeleton organization. up regulation of cytoskeleton organization. up-regulation of cytoskeleton organization. upregulation of cytoskeleton organization. Any process that activates or increases the frequency, rate or extent of the formation, arrangement of constituent parts, or disassembly of cytoskeletal structures.
GO:0060402	calcium ion transport into cytosol. The directed movement of calcium ions (Ca2+) into the cytosol.
GO:0045581	negative regulation of T cell differentiation. down regulation of T cell differentiation. down-regulation of T cell differentiation. downregulation of T cell differentiation. inhibition of T cell differentiation. negative regulation of T cell development. negative regulation of T lymphocyte differentiation. negative regulation of T-cell differentiation. negative regulation of T-lymphocyte differentiation. Any process that stops, prevents, or reduces the frequency, rate or extent of T cell differentiation.
GO:0001818	negative regulation of cytokine production. down regulation of cytokine biosynthetic process. down regulation of cytokine production. down-regulation of cytokine biosynthetic process. down-regulation of cytokine production. downregulation of cytokine biosynthetic process. downregulation of cytokine production. inhibition of cytokine biosynthetic process. inhibition of cytokine production. negative regulation of cytokine anabolism. negative regulation of cytokine biosynthesis. negative regulation of cytokine biosynthetic process. negative regulation of cytokine formation. negative regulation of cytokine secretion. negative regulation of cytokine synthesis. Any process that stops, prevents, or reduces the rate of production of a cytokine.
GO:0007420	brain development. The process whose specific outcome is the progression of the brain over time, from its formation to the mature structure. Brain development begins with patterning events in the neural tube and ends with the mature structure that is the center of thought and emotion. The brain is responsible for the coordination and control of bodily activities and the interpretation of information from the senses (sight, hearing, smell, etc.).
GO:0003044	regulation of systemic arterial blood pressure mediated by a chemical signal. blood pressure regulation mediated by a chemical signal. The regulation of blood pressure mediated by biochemical signaling: hormonal, autocrine or paracrine.
GO:0048513	animal organ development. development of an organ. organogenesis. Development of a tissue or tissues that work together to perform a specific function or functions. Development pertains to the process whose specific outcome is the progression of a structure over time, from its formation to the mature structure. Organs are commonly observed as visibly distinct structures, but may also exist as loosely associated clusters of cells that work together to perform a specific function or functions.
GO:0002548	monocyte chemotaxis. The movement of a monocyte in response to an external stimulus.
GO:0046890	regulation of lipid biosynthetic process. regulation of lipid anabolism. regulation of lipid biosynthesis. regulation of lipid formation. regulation of lipid synthesis. regulation of lipogenesis. Any process that modulates the frequency, rate or extent of the chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the formation of lipids.
GO:1903579	negative regulation of ATP metabolic process. down regulation of ATP metabolic process. down regulation of ATP metabolism. down-regulation of ATP metabolic process. down-regulation of ATP metabolism. downregulation of ATP metabolic process. downregulation of ATP metabolism. inhibition of ATP metabolic process. inhibition of ATP metabolism. negative regulation of ATP metabolism. Any process that stops, prevents or reduces the frequency, rate or extent of ATP metabolic process.
GO:1901652	response to peptide. Any process that results in a change in state or activity of a cell or an organism (in terms of movement, secretion, enzyme production, gene expression, etc.) as a result of a peptide stimulus.
GO:0006661	phosphatidylinositol biosynthetic process. phosphatidylinositol anabolism. phosphatidylinositol biosynthesis. phosphatidylinositol formation. phosphatidylinositol synthesis. phosphoinositide biosynthesis. phosphoinositide biosynthetic process. PtdIns biosynthesis. PtdIns biosynthetic process. The chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the formation of phosphatidylinositol, any glycophospholipid in which the sn-glycerol 3-phosphate residue is esterified to the 1-hydroxyl group of 1D-myo-inositol.
GO:0051098	regulation of binding. Any process that modulates the frequency, rate or extent of binding, the selective interaction of a molecule with one or more specific sites on another molecule.
GO:0008543	fibroblast growth factor receptor signaling pathway. FGF receptor signaling pathway. FGF receptor signalling pathway. FGFR signaling pathway. fibroblast growth factor receptor signalling pathway. The series of molecular signals generated as a consequence of a fibroblast growth factor receptor binding to one of its physiological ligands.
GO:1902036	regulation of hematopoietic stem cell differentiation. regulation of haematopoietic stem cell differentiation. regulation of haemopoietic stem cell differentiation. regulation of hemopoietic stem cell differentiation. Any process that modulates the frequency, rate or extent of hematopoietic stem cell differentiation.
GO:0032733	positive regulation of interleukin-10 production. activation of interleukin-10 production. positive regulation of IL-10 production. positive regulation of interleukin-10 biosynthetic process. positive regulation of interleukin-10 secretion. stimulation of interleukin-10 production. up regulation of interleukin-10 production. up-regulation of interleukin-10 production. upregulation of interleukin-10 production. Any process that activates or increases the frequency, rate, or extent of interleukin-10 production.
GO:0035050	embryonic heart tube development. The process whose specific outcome is the progression of the embryonic heart tube over time, from its formation to the mature structure. The heart tube forms as the heart rudiment from the heart field.
GO:0060688	regulation of morphogenesis of a branching structure. Any process that modulates the rate, frequency, or extent of branching morphogenesis, the process in which the anatomical structures of branches are generated and organized.
GO:0010042	response to manganese ion. response to manganese. Any process that results in a change in state or activity of a cell or an organism (in terms of movement, secretion, enzyme production, gene expression, etc.) as a result of a manganese ion stimulus.
GO:0060333	interferon-gamma-mediated signaling pathway. gamma-interferon-mediated signaling pathway. immune interferon signaling pathway. interferon-gamma-mediated signalling pathway. type II IFN-mediated signaling pathway. type II interferon-mediated signaling pathway. The series of molecular signals initiated by interferon-gamma binding to its receptor on the surface of a target cell, and ending with the regulation of a downstream cellular process, e.g. transcription. Interferon gamma is the only member of the type II interferon found so far.
GO:0006635	fatty acid beta-oxidation. A fatty acid oxidation process that results in the complete oxidation of a long-chain fatty acid. Fatty acid beta-oxidation begins with the addition of coenzyme A to a fatty acid, and occurs by successive cycles of reactions during each of which the fatty acid is shortened by a two-carbon fragment removed as acetyl coenzyme A; the cycle continues until only two or three carbons remain (as acetyl-CoA or propionyl-CoA respectively).
GO:0050729	positive regulation of inflammatory response. activation of inflammatory response. stimulation of inflammatory response. up regulation of inflammatory response. up-regulation of inflammatory response. upregulation of inflammatory response. Any process that activates or increases the frequency, rate or extent of the inflammatory response.
GO:0051403	stress-activated MAPK cascade. MAPK11 cascade. MAPK12 cascade. MAPK13 cascade. MAPK14 cascade. p38 cascade. p38 MAPK signaling. p38 MAPK signalling. SAPK cascade. stress-activated MAPK signaling pathway. stress-activated MAPK signalling pathway. stress-activated MAPKKK cascade. stress-activated MAPKKK signaling pathway. stress-activated MAPKKK signalling pathway. The series of molecular signals in which a stress-activated MAP kinase cascade relays a  signal; MAP kinase cascades involve at least three protein kinase activities and culminate in the phosphorylation and activation of a MAP kinase.
GO:0031295	T cell costimulation. T cell co-stimulation. T lymphocyte costimulation. T-cell co-stimulation. T-cell costimulation. T-lymphocyte costimulation. The process of providing, via surface-bound receptor-ligand pairs, a second, antigen-independent, signal in addition to that provided by the T cell receptor to augment T cell activation.
GO:0032715	negative regulation of interleukin-6 production. down regulation of interleukin-6 production. down-regulation of interleukin-6 production. downregulation of interleukin-6 production. inhibition of interleukin-6 production. negative regulation of IL-6 production. negative regulation of interleukin-6 biosynthetic process. negative regulation of interleukin-6 secretion. Any process that stops, prevents, or reduces the frequency, rate, or extent of interleukin-6 production.
GO:0043552	positive regulation of phosphatidylinositol 3-kinase activity. activation of phosphatidylinositol 3-kinase activity. positive regulation of phosphoinositide 3-kinase activity. stimulation of phosphatidylinositol 3-kinase activity. up regulation of phosphatidylinositol 3-kinase activity. up-regulation of phosphatidylinositol 3-kinase activity. upregulation of phosphatidylinositol 3-kinase activity. Any process that activates or increases the frequency, rate or extent of phosphatidylinositol 3-kinase activity.
GO:0030514	negative regulation of BMP signaling pathway. down regulation of BMP signaling pathway. down-regulation of BMP signaling pathway. downregulation of BMP signaling pathway. inhibition of BMP signaling pathway. negative regulation of BMP receptor signaling pathway. negative regulation of BMP signalling pathway. negative regulation of bone morphogenetic protein signaling pathway. negative regulation of bone morphogenetic protein signalling pathway. negative regulation of decapentaplegic receptor signaling pathway. negative regulation of decapentaplegic receptor signalling pathway. negative regulation of decapentaplegic signaling pathway. Any process that stops, prevents, or reduces the frequency, rate or extent of the BMP signaling pathway.
GO:0043043	peptide biosynthetic process. peptide anabolism. peptide biosynthesis. peptide formation. peptide synthesis. The chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the formation of peptides, compounds of 2 or more (but usually less than 100) amino acids where the alpha carboxyl group of one is bound to the alpha amino group of another. This may include the translation of a precursor protein and its subsequent processing into a functional peptide.
GO:0032674	regulation of interleukin-5 production. regulation of IL-5 production. regulation of interleukin-5 biosynthetic process. regulation of interleukin-5 secretion. Any process that modulates the frequency, rate, or extent of interleukin-5 production.
GO:0043124	negative regulation of I-kappaB kinase/NF-kappaB signaling. down regulation of I-kappaB kinase/NF-kappaB cascade. down-regulation of I-kappaB kinase/NF-kappaB cascade. downregulation of I-kappaB kinase/NF-kappaB cascade. inhibition of I-kappaB kinase/NF-kappaB cascade. negative regulation of I-kappaB kinase/NF-kappaB cascade. Any process that stops, prevents, or reduces the frequency, rate or extent of -kappaB kinase/NF-kappaB signaling.
GO:0010971	positive regulation of G2/M transition of mitotic cell cycle. positive regulation of cyclin-dependent protein serine/threonine kinase activity involved in G2/M transition of mitotic cell cycle. positive regulation of mitotic entry. Any signalling pathway that activates or increases the activity of a cell cycle cyclin-dependent protein kinase to modulate the switch from G2 phase to M phase of the mitotic cell cycle.
GO:0035295	tube development. The process whose specific outcome is the progression of a tube over time, from its initial formation to a mature structure. Epithelial and endothelial tubes transport gases, liquids and cells from one site to another and form the basic structure of many organs and tissues including lung and trachea, kidney, the mammary gland, the vascular system and the gastrointestinal and urinary-genital tracts.
GO:0097190	apoptotic signaling pathway. apoptotic signalling pathway. induction of apoptosis by extracellular signals. The series of molecular signals which triggers the apoptotic death of a cell. The pathway starts with reception of a signal, and ends when the execution phase of apoptosis is triggered.
GO:0140029	exocytic process. The cellular processes that contribute to exocytosis.
GO:0032435	negative regulation of proteasomal ubiquitin-dependent protein catabolic process. down regulation of proteasomal ubiquitin-dependent protein catabolic process. down-regulation of proteasomal ubiquitin-dependent protein catabolic process. downregulation of proteasomal ubiquitin-dependent protein catabolic process. inhibition of proteasomal ubiquitin-dependent protein catabolic process. Any process that stops, prevents, or reduces the frequency, rate or extent of the breakdown of a protein or peptide by hydrolysis of its peptide bonds, initiated by the covalent attachment of ubiquitin, and mediated by the proteasome.
GO:0032355	response to estradiol. response to E2 stimulus. response to estradiol stimulus. Any process that results in a change in state or activity of a cell or an organism (in terms of movement, secretion, enzyme production, gene expression, etc.) as a result of stimulus by estradiol, a C18 steroid hormone hydroxylated at C3 and C17 that acts as a potent estrogen.
GO:0033003	regulation of mast cell activation. Any process that modulates the frequency, rate, or extent of mast cell activation.
GO:2000406	positive regulation of T cell migration. positive regulation of T lymphocyte migration. positive regulation of T-cell migration. positive regulation of T-lymphocyte migration. Any process that activates or increases the frequency, rate or extent of T cell migration.
GO:0032740	positive regulation of interleukin-17 production. activation of interleukin-17 production. positive regulation of CTLA-8 production. positive regulation of Cytotoxic T-lymphocyte-associated antigen 8 production. positive regulation of IL-17 production. positive regulation of interleukin-17 biosynthetic process. positive regulation of interleukin-17 secretion. stimulation of interleukin-17 production. up regulation of interleukin-17 production. up-regulation of interleukin-17 production. upregulation of interleukin-17 production. Any process that activates or increases the frequency, rate, or extent of production of any member of the interleukin-17 family of cytokines.
GO:1905475	regulation of protein localization to membrane. regulation of protein localisation in membrane. regulation of protein localization in membrane. Any process that modulates the frequency, rate or extent of protein localization to membrane.
GO:2001259	positive regulation of cation channel activity. positive regulation of cation diffusion facilitator activity. positive regulation of nonselective cation channel activity. Any process that activates or increases the frequency, rate or extent of cation channel activity.
GO:0015721	bile acid and bile salt transport. bile acid transport. bile salt transport. The directed movement of bile acid and bile salts into, out of or within a cell, or between cells, by means of some agent such as a transporter or pore.
GO:0031954	positive regulation of protein autophosphorylation. activation of protein amino acid autophosphorylation. positive regulation of protein amino acid autophosphorylation. stimulation of protein amino acid autophosphorylation. up regulation of protein amino acid autophosphorylation. up-regulation of protein amino acid autophosphorylation. upregulation of protein amino acid autophosphorylation. Any process that activates or increases the frequency, rate or extent of the phosphorylation by a protein of one or more of its own residues.
GO:0051209	release of sequestered calcium ion into cytosol. calcium ion (Ca2+) mobilization. calcium mobilization. cytoplasmic release of sequestered calcium ion (Ca2+). cytoplasmic release of stored calcium ion (Ca2+). cytosolic release of sequestered calcium ion (Ca2+). cytosolic release of stored calcium ion (Ca2+). release of sequestered calcium ion (Ca2+). release of sequestered calcium ion into cytoplasm. release of stored calcium ion (Ca2+). release of stored calcium ion (Ca2+) into cytoplasm. release of stored calcium ion (Ca2+) into cytosol. The process in which calcium ions sequestered in the endoplasmic reticulum, Golgi apparatus or mitochondria are released into the cytosolic compartment.
GO:0007127	meiosis I. meiosis I nuclear division. The first meiotic nuclear division in which homologous chromosomes are paired and segregated from each other, producing two haploid daughter nuclei.
GO:0042742	defense response to bacterium. antibacterial peptide activity. defence response to bacteria. defence response to bacterium. defense response to bacteria. defense response to bacterium, incompatible interaction. resistance response to pathogenic bacteria. resistance response to pathogenic bacterium. Reactions triggered in response to the presence of a bacterium that act to protect the cell or organism.
GO:0050728	negative regulation of inflammatory response. anti-inflammatory response. down regulation of inflammatory response. down-regulation of inflammatory response. downregulation of inflammatory response. inhibition of inflammatory response. Any process that stops, prevents, or reduces the frequency, rate or extent of the inflammatory response.
GO:0046580	negative regulation of Ras protein signal transduction. down regulation of Ras protein signal transduction. down-regulation of Ras protein signal transduction. downregulation of Ras protein signal transduction. inhibition of Ras protein signal transduction. Any process that stops, prevents, or reduces the frequency, rate or extent of Ras protein signal transduction.
GO:0060976	coronary vasculature development. cardiac blood vessel development. cardiac vasculature development. coronary blood vessel development. heart blood vessel development. heart vasculature development. The process whose specific outcome is the progression of the blood vessels of the heart over time, from its formation to the mature structure.
GO:0098586	cellular response to virus. Any process that results in a change in state or activity of a cell (in terms of movement, secretion, enzyme production, gene expression, etc.) as a result of a stimulus from a virus.
GO:0008217	regulation of blood pressure. blood pressure homeostasis. blood pressure regulation. control of blood pressure. Any process that modulates the force with which blood travels through the circulatory system. The process is controlled by a balance of processes that increase pressure and decrease pressure.
GO:0045742	positive regulation of epidermal growth factor receptor signaling pathway. activation of epidermal growth factor receptor signaling pathway. positive regulation of EGF receptor signaling pathway. positive regulation of EGF receptor signalling pathway. positive regulation of EGFR signaling pathway. stimulation of epidermal growth factor receptor signaling pathway. up regulation of epidermal growth factor receptor signaling pathway. up-regulation of epidermal growth factor receptor signaling pathway. upregulation of epidermal growth factor receptor signaling pathway. Any process that activates or increases the frequency, rate or extent of epidermal growth factor receptor signaling pathway activity.
GO:0010559	regulation of glycoprotein biosynthetic process. Any process that modulates the rate, frequency, or extent of the chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the formation of a glycoprotein, a protein that contains covalently bound glycose (i.e. monosaccharide) residues; the glycose occurs most commonly as oligosaccharide or fairly small polysaccharide but occasionally as monosaccharide.
GO:0001895	retina homeostasis. A tissue homeostatic process involved in the maintenance of an internal equilibrium within the retina of the eye, including control of cellular proliferation and death and control of metabolic function.
GO:0006333	chromatin organization. chromatin assembly or disassembly. chromatin assembly/disassembly. chromatin modification. chromatin organisation. establishment or maintenance of chromatin architecture. Any process that results in the specification, formation or maintenance of the physical structure of eukaryotic chromatin.
GO:0010882	regulation of cardiac muscle contraction by calcium ion signaling. regulation of cardiac muscle contraction by calcium ion signalling. Any process that modulates the frequency, rate or extent of cardiac muscle contraction by changing the calcium ion signals that trigger contraction.
GO:0030850	prostate gland development. prostate development. The process whose specific outcome is the progression of the prostate gland over time, from its formation to the mature structure. The prostate gland is a partly muscular, partly glandular body that is situated near the base of the mammalian male urethra and secretes an alkaline viscid fluid which is a major constituent of the ejaculatory fluid.
GO:0070588	calcium ion transmembrane transport. calcium ion membrane transport. transmembrane calcium transport. A process in which a calcium ion is transported from one side of a membrane to the other by means of some agent such as a transporter or pore.
GO:0038061	NIK/NF-kappaB signaling. NIK-IKK cascade. NIK-IKK kinase cascade. NIK-IKK signaling pathway. NIK-IKK-alpha cascade. NIK/NF-kappaB cascade. NIK/NF-kappaB signal transduction. non-canonical NF-KB signaling. noncanonical NF-kappaB signaling. noncanonical nuclear factor kappaB (NF-kappaB) pathway. p52-dependent NF-kappaB signaling. The process in which a signal is passed on to downstream components within the cell through the NIK-dependent processing and activation of NF-KappaB. Begins with activation of the NF-KappaB-inducing kinase (NIK), which in turn phosphorylates and activates IkappaB kinase alpha (IKKalpha). IKKalpha phosphorylates the NF-Kappa B2 protein (p100) leading to p100 processing and release of an active NF-KappaB (p52).
GO:0030593	neutrophil chemotaxis. The directed movement of a neutrophil cell, the most numerous polymorphonuclear leukocyte found in the blood, in response to an external stimulus, usually an infection or wounding.
GO:0071230	cellular response to amino acid stimulus. cellular response to amino acid. Any process that results in a change in state or activity of a cell (in terms of movement, secretion, enzyme production, gene expression, etc.) as a result of an amino acid stimulus. An amino acid is a carboxylic acids containing one or more amino groups.
GO:0008207	C21-steroid hormone metabolic process. C21-steroid hormone metabolism. The chemical reactions and pathways involving C21-steroid hormones, steroid compounds containing 21 carbons which function as hormones.
GO:0006730	one-carbon metabolic process. one carbon metabolic process. one carbon metabolism. one-carbon metabolism. one-carbon transfer metabolic process. one-carbon transfer metabolism. The chemical reactions and pathways involving the transfer of one-carbon units in various oxidation states.
GO:0043302	positive regulation of leukocyte degranulation. activation of leukocyte degranulation. positive regulation of immune cell degranulation. positive regulation of leucocyte degranulation. stimulation of leukocyte degranulation. up regulation of leukocyte degranulation. up-regulation of leukocyte degranulation. upregulation of leukocyte degranulation. Any process that activates or increases the frequency, rate or extent of leukocyte degranulation.
GO:0014031	mesenchymal cell development. The process aimed at the progression of a mesenchymal cell over time, from initial commitment of the cell to its specific fate, to the fully functional differentiated cell.
GO:0048705	skeletal system morphogenesis. skeletal morphogenesis. The process in which the anatomical structures of the skeleton are generated and organized.
GO:1904659	glucose transmembrane transport. glucose transport. The process in which glucose is transported across a membrane.
GO:1904467	regulation of tumor necrosis factor production. regulation of cachectin production. regulation of TNF production. regulation of TNF-alpha production. regulation of tumor necrosis factor biosynthetic process. regulation of tumor necrosis factor secretion. regulation of tumor necrosis factor-alpha production. Any process that modulates the frequency, rate or extent of tumor necrosis factor production.
GO:0006625	protein targeting to peroxisome. protein-peroxisome targeting. The process of directing proteins towards the peroxisome, usually using signals contained within the protein.
GO:0071470	cellular response to osmotic stress. cellular osmotic response. cellular osmotic stress response. Any process that results in a change in state or activity of a cell (in terms of movement, secretion, enzyme production, gene expression, etc.) as a result of a stimulus indicating an increase or decrease in the concentration of solutes outside the organism or cell.
GO:0016579	protein deubiquitination. deubiquitination. protein deubiquitinylation. protein deubiquitylation. The removal of one or more ubiquitin groups from a protein.
GO:0032148	activation of protein kinase B activity. protein kinase B activation. Any process that initiates the activity of the inactive enzyme protein kinase B.
GO:1902644	tertiary alcohol metabolic process. tertiary alcohol metabolism. The chemical reactions and pathways involving tertiary alcohol.
GO:0006986	response to unfolded protein. heat shock protein activity. Any process that results in a change in state or activity of a cell or an organism (in terms of movement, secretion, enzyme production, gene expression, etc.) as a result of an unfolded protein stimulus.
GO:0045639	positive regulation of myeloid cell differentiation. activation of myeloid cell differentiation. stimulation of myeloid cell differentiation. up regulation of myeloid cell differentiation. up-regulation of myeloid cell differentiation. upregulation of myeloid cell differentiation. Any process that activates or increases the frequency, rate or extent of myeloid cell differentiation.
GO:0006508	proteolysis. ATP-dependent proteolysis. peptidolysis. The hydrolysis of proteins into smaller polypeptides and/or amino acids by cleavage of their peptide bonds.
GO:0035176	social behavior. cooperative behavior. social behaviour. Behavior directed towards society, or taking place between members of the same species. Occurs predominantly, or only, in individuals that are part of a group.
GO:0002739	regulation of cytokine production involved in immune response. regulation of cytokine biosynthetic process involved in immune response. regulation of cytokine production during immune response. regulation of cytokine secretion involved in immune response. Any process that modulates the frequency, rate, or extent of cytokine production that contributes to an immune response.
GO:0010972	negative regulation of G2/M transition of mitotic cell cycle. negative regulation of mitotic entry. Any signalling pathway that decreases or inhibits the activity of a cell cycle cyclin-dependent protein kinase to modulate the switch from G2 phase to M phase of the mitotic cell cycle.
GO:0072215	regulation of metanephros development. Any process that modulates the rate, frequency or extent of metanephros development. Metanephros development is the process whose specific outcome is the progression of the metanephros over time, from its formation to the mature structure. The metanephros is an endocrine and metabolic organ that filters the blood and excretes the end products of body metabolism in the form of urine.
GO:0042493	response to xenobiotic stimulus. drug resistance. drug susceptibility/resistance. response to drug. Any process that results in a change in state or activity of a cell or an organism (in terms of movement, secretion, enzyme production, gene expression, etc.) as a result of a stimulus from a xenobiotic, a compound foreign to the organim exposed to it. It may be synthesized by another organism (like ampicilin) or it can be a synthetic chemical.
GO:0048259	regulation of receptor-mediated endocytosis. regulation of receptor mediated endocytosis. Any process that modulates the frequency, rate or extent of receptor mediated endocytosis, the uptake of external materials by cells, utilizing receptors to ensure specificity of transport.
GO:0016032	viral process. viral infection. virulence. virus process. A multi-organism process in which a virus is a participant. The other participant is the host. Includes infection of a host cell, replication of the viral genome, and assembly of progeny virus particles. In some cases the viral genetic material may integrate into the host genome and only subsequently, under particular circumstances, 'complete' its life cycle.
GO:0043254	regulation of protein-containing complex assembly. regulation of protein complex assembly. Any process that modulates the frequency, rate or extent of protein complex assembly.
GO:0051607	defense response to virus. antiviral response. defence response to virus. defense response to viruses. Reactions triggered in response to the presence of a virus that act to protect the cell or organism.
GO:0006706	steroid catabolic process. steroid breakdown. steroid catabolism. steroid degradation. The chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the breakdown of steroids, compounds with a 1,2,cyclopentanoperhydrophenanthrene nucleus.
GO:0009615	response to virus. response to viruses. Any process that results in a change in state or activity of a cell or an organism (in terms of movement, secretion, enzyme production, gene expression, etc.) as a result of a stimulus from a virus.
GO:1904950	negative regulation of establishment of protein localization. down regulation of establishment of protein localisation. down regulation of establishment of protein localization. down regulation of protein positioning. down regulation of protein recruitment. down-regulation of establishment of protein localisation. down-regulation of establishment of protein localization. down-regulation of protein positioning. down-regulation of protein recruitment. downregulation of establishment of protein localisation. downregulation of establishment of protein localization. downregulation of protein positioning. downregulation of protein recruitment. inhibition of establishment of protein localisation. inhibition of establishment of protein localization. inhibition of protein positioning. inhibition of protein recruitment. negative regulation of establishment of protein localisation. negative regulation of protein positioning. negative regulation of protein recruitment. Any process that stops, prevents or reduces the frequency, rate or extent of establishment of protein localization.
GO:0045661	regulation of myoblast differentiation. Any process that modulates the frequency, rate or extent of myoblast differentiation. A myoblast is a mononucleate cell type that, by fusion with other myoblasts, gives rise to the myotubes that eventually develop into skeletal muscle fibers.
GO:0018027	peptidyl-lysine dimethylation. The methylation of peptidyl-lysine to form peptidyl-N6,N6-dimethyl-L-lysine.
GO:0000070	mitotic sister chromatid segregation. mitotic chromosome segregation. mitotic sister-chromatid adhesion release. The cell cycle process in which replicated homologous chromosomes are organized and then physically separated and apportioned to two sets during the mitotic cell cycle. Each replicated chromosome, composed of two sister chromatids, aligns at the cell equator, paired with its homologous partner. One homolog of each morphologic type goes into each of the resulting chromosome sets.
GO:0006691	leukotriene metabolic process. leukotriene metabolism. The chemical reactions and pathways involving leukotriene, a pharmacologically active substance derived from a polyunsaturated fatty acid, such as arachidonic acid.
GO:1902235	regulation of endoplasmic reticulum stress-induced intrinsic apoptotic signaling pathway. regulation of apoptosis in response to endoplasmic reticulum stress. regulation of apoptosis in response to ER stress. regulation of apoptosis triggered by ER stress. regulation of endoplasmic reticulum stress-induced apoptosis. regulation of ER stress-induced apoptosis. regulation of intrinsic apoptotic signaling pathway in response to endoplasmic reticulum stress. regulation of intrinsic apoptotic signaling pathway induced by endoplasmic reticulum stress. Any process that modulates the frequency, rate or extent of an endoplasmic reticulum stress-induced intrinsic apoptotic signaling pathway.
GO:0048813	dendrite morphogenesis. The process in which the anatomical structures of a dendrite are generated and organized.
GO:0042053	regulation of dopamine metabolic process. regulation of dopamine metabolism. Any process that modulates the frequency, rate or extent of the chemical reactions and pathways involving dopamine.
GO:0006575	cellular modified amino acid metabolic process. amino acid derivative metabolic process. cellular amino acid derivative metabolic process. cellular amino acid derivative metabolism. cellular modified amino acid metabolism. modified amino acid metabolic process. modified amino acid metabolism. The chemical reactions and pathways involving compounds derived from amino acids, organic acids containing one or more amino substituents.
GO:2001238	positive regulation of extrinsic apoptotic signaling pathway. positive regulation of extrinsic apoptosis. positive regulation of extrinsic apoptotic signalling pathway. Any process that activates or increases the frequency, rate or extent of extrinsic apoptotic signaling pathway.
GO:0002757	immune response-activating signal transduction. The series of molecular signals generated by a ligand binding to its receptor that ultimately lead to the activation or perpetuation of an immune response.
GO:0071248	cellular response to metal ion. cellular response to heavy metal. cellular response to metal. Any process that results in a change in state or activity of a cell (in terms of movement, secretion, enzyme production, gene expression, etc.) as a result of a metal ion stimulus.
GO:0050688	regulation of defense response to virus. regulation of antiviral response. Any process that modulates the frequency, rate or extent of the antiviral response of a cell or organism.
GO:0019219	regulation of nucleobase-containing compound metabolic process. regulation of nucleobase, nucleoside, nucleotide and nucleic acid metabolic process. regulation of nucleobase, nucleoside, nucleotide and nucleic acid metabolism. Any cellular process that modulates the frequency, rate or extent of the chemical reactions and pathways involving nucleobases, nucleosides, nucleotides and nucleic acids.
GO:0031641	regulation of myelination. Any process that modulates the frequency, rate or extent of the formation of a myelin sheath around nerve axons.
GO:0048645	animal organ formation. animal organ primordium initiation. initiation of an animal organ primordium. The process pertaining to the initial formation of an animal organ from unspecified parts. The process begins with the specific processes that contribute to the appearance of the discrete structure, such as inductive events, and ends when the structural rudiment of the organ is recognizable, such as a condensation of mesenchymal cells into the organ rudiment. Organs are a natural part or structure in an animal or a plant, capable of performing some special action (termed its function), which is essential to the life or well-being of the whole. The heart and lungs are organs of animals, and the petal and leaf are organs of plants. In animals the organs are generally made up of several tissues, one of which usually predominates, and determines the principal function of the organ.
GO:0030168	platelet activation. blood coagulation, platelet activation. A series of progressive, overlapping events triggered by exposure of the platelets to subendothelial tissue. These events include shape change, adhesiveness, aggregation, and release reactions. When carried through to completion, these events lead to the formation of a stable hemostatic plug.
GO:0090023	positive regulation of neutrophil chemotaxis. Any process that increases the frequency, rate, or extent of neutrophil chemotaxis. Neutrophil chemotaxis is the directed movement of a neutrophil cell, the most numerous polymorphonuclear leukocyte found in the blood, in response to an external stimulus, usually an infection or wounding.
GO:0042391	regulation of membrane potential. Any process that modulates the establishment or extent of a membrane potential, the electric potential existing across any membrane arising from charges in the membrane itself and from the charges present in the media on either side of the membrane.
GO:0009612	response to mechanical stimulus. chemi-mechanical coupling. mechanical stimulus response. Any process that results in a change in state or activity of a cell or an organism (in terms of movement, secretion, enzyme production, gene expression, etc.) as a result of a mechanical stimulus.
GO:0072422	DNA damage checkpoint signaling. DNA damage checkpoint. DNA damage response, signal transduction resulting in cell cycle arrest. signal transduction involved in DNA damage checkpoint. A signal transduction process that contributes to a DNA damage checkpoint.
GO:0009611	response to wounding. physiological response to wounding. Any process that results in a change in state or activity of a cell or an organism (in terms of movement, secretion, enzyme production, gene expression, etc.) as a result of a stimulus indicating damage to the organism.
GO:0002719	negative regulation of cytokine production involved in immune response. down regulation of cytokine production during immune response. down-regulation of cytokine production during immune response. downregulation of cytokine production during immune response. inhibition of cytokine production during immune response. negative regulation of cytokine biosynthetic process involved in immune response. negative regulation of cytokine production during immune response. negative regulation of cytokine secretion involved in immune response. Any process that stops, prevents, or reduces the frequency, rate, or extent of cytokine production contributing to an immune response.
GO:0030098	lymphocyte differentiation. lymphocyte cell differentiation. lymphocyte development. lymphocytic blood cell differentiation. The process in which a relatively unspecialized precursor cell acquires specialized features of a lymphocyte. A lymphocyte is a leukocyte commonly found in the blood and lymph that has the characteristics of a large nucleus, a neutral staining cytoplasm, and prominent heterochromatin.
GO:0072659	protein localization to plasma membrane. protein localisation in plasma membrane. protein localization in plasma membrane. protein targeting to plasma membrane. protein-plasma membrane targeting. A process in which a protein is transported to, or maintained in, a specific location in the plasma membrane.
GO:0007623	circadian rhythm. circadian process. circadian response. response to circadian rhythm. Any biological process in an organism that recurs with a regularity of approximately 24 hours.
GO:0051646	mitochondrion localization. establishment and maintenance of mitochondria localization. establishment and maintenance of mitochondrion localization. localization of mitochondria. localization of mitochondrion. mitochondria localization. mitochondrial localization. mitochondrion localisation. Any process in which a mitochondrion or mitochondria are transported to, and/or maintained in, a specific location within the cell.
GO:0006631	fatty acid metabolic process. fatty acid metabolism. The chemical reactions and pathways involving fatty acids, aliphatic monocarboxylic acids liberated from naturally occurring fats and oils by hydrolysis.
GO:0032735	positive regulation of interleukin-12 production. activation of interleukin-12 production. positive regulation of CLMF production. positive regulation of IL-12 production. positive regulation of interleukin-12 biosynthetic process. positive regulation of interleukin-12 secretion. positive regulation of NKSF production. stimulation of interleukin-12 production. up regulation of interleukin-12 production. up-regulation of interleukin-12 production. upregulation of interleukin-12 production. Any process that activates or increases the frequency, rate, or extent of interleukin-12 production.
GO:0008542	visual learning. spatial learning. Any process in an organism in which a change in behavior of an individual occurs in response to repeated exposure to a visual cue.
GO:0033209	tumor necrosis factor-mediated signaling pathway. adipocytokine signaling pathway. TNF-alpha-mediated signaling pathway. tumor necrosis factor alpha-mediated signaling pathway. tumor necrosis factor-mediated signalling pathway. The series of molecular signals initiated by tumor necrosis factor binding to its receptor on the surface of a cell, and ending with the regulation of a downstream cellular process, e.g. transcription.
GO:0035383	thioester metabolic process. thioester metabolism. The chemical reactions and pathways involving a thioester, a compound of general formula RC(=O)SR' in which the linking oxygen in an ester is replaced by a sulfur atom. They are the product of esterification between a carboxylic acid and a thiol.
GO:0015711	organic anion transport. The directed movement of organic anions into, out of or within a cell, or between cells, by means of some agent such as a transporter or pore. Organic anions are atoms or small molecules with a negative charge which contain carbon in covalent linkage.
GO:0042304	regulation of fatty acid biosynthetic process. regulation of fatty acid anabolism. regulation of fatty acid biosynthesis. regulation of fatty acid formation. regulation of fatty acid synthesis. Any process that modulates the frequency, rate or extent of the chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the formation of fatty acids, any of the aliphatic monocarboxylic acids that can be liberated by hydrolysis from naturally occurring fats and oils.
GO:1903670	regulation of sprouting angiogenesis. Any process that modulates the frequency, rate or extent of sprouting angiogenesis.
GO:0016192	vesicle-mediated transport. nonselective vesicle transport. protein sorting along secretory pathway. vesicle trafficking. vesicle transport. vesicular transport. A cellular transport process in which transported substances are moved in membrane-bounded vesicles; transported substances are enclosed in the vesicle lumen or located in the vesicle membrane. The process begins with a step that directs a substance to the forming vesicle, and includes vesicle budding and coating. Vesicles are then targeted to, and fuse with, an acceptor membrane.
GO:0030031	cell projection assembly. cell projection biogenesis. formation of a cell surface projection. Formation of a prolongation or process extending from a cell, e.g. a flagellum or axon.
GO:0048568	embryonic organ development. embryonic organogenesis. Development, taking place during the embryonic phase, of a tissue or tissues that work together to perform a specific function or functions. Development pertains to the process whose specific outcome is the progression of a structure over time, from its formation to the mature structure. Organs are commonly observed as visibly distinct structures, but may also exist as loosely associated clusters of cells that work together to perform a specific function or functions.
GO:0070555	response to interleukin-1. response to IL-1. Any process that results in a change in state or activity of a cell or an organism (in terms of movement, secretion, enzyme production, gene expression, etc.) as a result of an interleukin-1 stimulus.
GO:0009404	toxin metabolic process. toxin metabolism. The chemical reactions and pathways involving a toxin, a poisonous compound (typically a protein) that is produced by cells or organisms and that can cause disease when introduced into the body or tissues of an organism.
GO:0006029	proteoglycan metabolic process. proteoglycan metabolism. proteoglycan sulfate transfer. The chemical reactions and pathways involving proteoglycans, any glycoprotein in which the carbohydrate units are glycosaminoglycans.
GO:1903827	regulation of protein localization. regulation of cellular protein localisation. regulation of cellular protein localization. regulation of protein localisation. Any process that modulates the frequency, rate or extent of any process in which a protein is transported to, or maintained in, a specific location.
GO:0051385	response to mineralocorticoid. response to mineralocorticoid stimulus. Any process that results in a change in state or activity of a cell or an organism (in terms of movement, secretion, enzyme production, gene expression, etc.) as a result of a mineralocorticoid stimulus. Mineralocorticoids are hormonal C21 corticosteroids synthesized from cholesterol and characterized by their similarity to aldosterone. Mineralocorticoids act primarily on water and electrolyte balance.
GO:0008016	regulation of heart contraction. regulation of cardiac contraction. Any process that modulates the frequency, rate or extent of heart contraction. Heart contraction is the process in which the heart decreases in volume in a characteristic way to propel blood through the body.
GO:0046135	pyrimidine nucleoside catabolic process. pyrimidine nucleoside breakdown. pyrimidine nucleoside catabolism. pyrimidine nucleoside degradation. The chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the breakdown of one of a family of organic molecules consisting of a pyrimidine base covalently bonded to a sugar ribose (a ribonucleoside) or deoxyribose (a deoxyribonucleoside).
GO:0050778	positive regulation of immune response. stimulation of immune response. up regulation of immune response. up-regulation of immune response. upregulation of immune response. Any process that activates or increases the frequency, rate or extent of the immune response, the immunological reaction of an organism to an immunogenic stimulus.
GO:0030539	male genitalia development. male genital development. The process whose specific outcome is the progression of the male genitalia over time, from its formation to the mature structure.
GO:0034622	protein-containing complex assembly. cellular macromolecule complex assembly. cellular protein complex assembly. cellular protein-containing complex assembly. chaperone activity. macromolecular complex assembly. macromolecule complex assembly. protein complex assembly. protein complex formation. The aggregation, arrangement and bonding together of a set of macromolecules to form a protein-containing complex.
GO:0046129	purine ribonucleoside biosynthetic process. purine ribonucleoside anabolism. purine ribonucleoside biosynthesis. purine ribonucleoside formation. purine ribonucleoside synthesis. The chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the formation of any purine ribonucleoside, a nucleoside in which purine base is linked to a ribose (beta-D-ribofuranose) molecule.
GO:0014048	regulation of glutamate secretion. Any process that modulates the frequency, rate or extent of the controlled release of glutamate.
GO:0001656	metanephros development. The process whose specific outcome is the progression of the metanephros over time, from its formation to the mature structure. In mammals, the metanephros is the excretory organ of the fetus, which develops into the mature kidney and is formed from the rear portion of the nephrogenic cord. The metanephros is an endocrine and metabolic organ that filters the blood and excretes the end products of body metabolism in the form of urine.
GO:0071361	cellular response to ethanol. Any process that results in a change in state or activity of a cell (in terms of movement, secretion, enzyme production, gene expression, etc.) as a result of an ethanol stimulus.
GO:0043101	purine-containing compound salvage. purine salvage. Any process that generates a purine-containing compound, any nucleobase, nucleoside, nucleotide or nucleic acid that contains a purine base, from derivatives of them without de novo synthesis.
GO:0048011	neurotrophin TRK receptor signaling pathway. TrkA signaling pathway. TrkB signaling pathway. TrkC signaling pathway. tropomyosin-receptor-kinase signaling. The series of molecular signals initiated by neurotrophin binding to its receptor on the surface of a target cell where the receptor possesses tyrosine kinase activity, and ending with the regulation of a downstream cellular process, e.g. transcription.
GO:0086091	regulation of heart rate by cardiac conduction. A cardiac conduction process that modulates the frequency or rate of heart contraction.
GO:0001558	regulation of cell growth. Any process that modulates the frequency, rate, extent or direction of cell growth.
GO:0048489	synaptic vesicle transport. synaptic vesicle fission. synaptic vesicle fusion. synaptic vesicle trafficking. The directed movement of synaptic vesicles.
GO:0006732	obsolete coenzyme metabolic process. coenzyme and prosthetic group metabolic process. coenzyme and prosthetic group metabolism. coenzyme metabolism. group transfer coenzyme metabolic process. group transfer coenzyme metabolism. OBSOLETE. The chemical reactions and pathways involving coenzymes, any of various nonprotein organic cofactors that are required, in addition to an enzyme and a substrate, for an enzymatic reaction to proceed.
GO:0042220	response to cocaine. Any process that results in a change in state or activity of a cell or an organism (in terms of movement, secretion, enzyme production, gene expression, etc.) as a result of a cocaine stimulus. Cocaine is a crystalline alkaloid obtained from the leaves of the coca plant.
GO:0051023	regulation of immunoglobulin production. regulation of antibody production. regulation of immunoglobulin biosynthetic process. regulation of immunoglobulin secretion. Any process that modulates the frequency, rate, or extent of immunoglobulin production.
GO:0006206	pyrimidine nucleobase metabolic process. pyrimidine base metabolic process. pyrimidine base metabolism. pyrimidine metabolic process. pyrimidine metabolism. The chemical reactions and pathways involving pyrimidine nucleobases, 1,3-diazine, organic nitrogenous bases.
GO:0010721	negative regulation of cell development. Any process that decreases the rate, frequency or extent of the progression of the cell over time, from its formation to the mature structure. Cell development does not include the steps involved in committing a cell to a specific fate.
GO:0006644	phospholipid metabolic process. phospholipid metabolism. The chemical reactions and pathways involving phospholipids, any lipid containing phosphoric acid as a mono- or diester.
GO:1901575	organic substance catabolic process. organic molecular entity breakdown. organic molecular entity catabolic process. organic molecular entity catabolism. organic molecular entity degradation. organic substance breakdown. organic substance catabolism. organic substance degradation. The chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the breakdown of an organic substance, any molecular entity containing carbon.
GO:0046718	viral entry into host cell. entry of virus into host cell. phage translocation. viral penetration. virion penetration. virion penetration into host cell. virus entry into host cell. The process that occurs after viral attachment by which a virus, or viral nucleic acid, breaches the plasma membrane or cell envelope and enters the host cell. The process ends when the viral nucleic acid is released into the host cell cytoplasm.
GO:0034123	positive regulation of toll-like receptor signaling pathway. positive regulation of TLR signaling pathway. positive regulation of toll-like receptor signalling pathway. Any process that activates or increases the frequency, rate, or extent of toll-like receptor signaling pathway.
GO:0051282	regulation of sequestering of calcium ion. regulation of calcium ion (Ca2+) retention. regulation of calcium ion (Ca2+) sequestering. regulation of calcium ion (Ca2+) sequestration. regulation of calcium ion (Ca2+) storage. regulation of retention of calcium ion (Ca2+). regulation of sequestering of calcium ion (Ca2+). regulation of sequestration of calcium ion (Ca2+). regulation of storage of calcium ion (Ca2+). Any process that modulates the frequency, rate or extent of the binding or confining calcium ions such that they are separated from other components of a biological system.
GO:1904996	positive regulation of leukocyte adhesion to vascular endothelial cell. activation of leukocyte adhesion to vascular endothelial cell. up regulation of leukocyte adhesion to vascular endothelial cell. up-regulation of leukocyte adhesion to vascular endothelial cell. upregulation of leukocyte adhesion to vascular endothelial cell. Any process that activates or increases the frequency, rate or extent of leukocyte adhesion to vascular endothelial cell.
GO:0060485	mesenchyme development. mesenchymal development. The process whose specific outcome is the progression of a mesenchymal tissue over time, from its formation to the mature structure. A mesenchymal tissue is made up of loosely packed stellate cells.
GO:0034620	cellular response to unfolded protein. heat shock protein activity. Any process that results in a change in state or activity of a cell (in terms of movement, secretion, enzyme production, gene expression, etc.) as a result of an unfolded protein stimulus.
GO:1903313	positive regulation of mRNA metabolic process. activation of mRNA metabolic process. activation of mRNA metabolism. positive regulation of mRNA metabolism. up regulation of mRNA metabolic process. up regulation of mRNA metabolism. up-regulation of mRNA metabolic process. up-regulation of mRNA metabolism. upregulation of mRNA metabolic process. upregulation of mRNA metabolism. Any process that activates or increases the frequency, rate or extent of mRNA metabolic process.
GO:0071320	cellular response to cAMP. cellular response to 3',5' cAMP. cellular response to 3',5'-cAMP. cellular response to adenosine 3',5'-cyclophosphate. cellular response to cyclic AMP. Any process that results in a change in state or activity of a cell (in terms of movement, secretion, enzyme production, gene expression, etc.) as a result of a cAMP (cyclic AMP, adenosine 3',5'-cyclophosphate) stimulus.
GO:0007528	neuromuscular junction development. neuromuscular junction organization. neuromuscular junction stability. NMJ stability. A process that is carried out at the cellular level which results in the assembly, arrangement of constituent parts, or disassembly of a neuromuscular junction.
GO:0050821	protein stabilization. lysosomal protein stabilization. positive regulation of protein stability. protein sequestering. protein stabilisation. protein stabilization activity. Any process involved in maintaining the structure and integrity of a protein and preventing it from degradation or aggregation.
GO:0035589	G protein-coupled purinergic nucleotide receptor signaling pathway. G-protein coupled purinergic nucleotide receptor signaling pathway. G-protein coupled purinergic nucleotide receptor signalling pathway. P2Y receptor signaling pathway. A G protein-coupled receptor signaling pathway initiated by an extracellular purine nucleotide binding to its receptor, and ending with the regulation of a downstream cellular process.
GO:0044087	regulation of cellular component biogenesis. Any process that modulates the frequency, rate or extent of cellular component biogenesis, a process that results in the biosynthesis of constituent macromolecules, assembly, and arrangement of constituent parts of a cellular component.
GO:0070988	demethylation. The process of removing one or more methyl groups from a molecule.
GO:0044058	regulation of digestive system process. Any process that modulates the frequency, rate or extent of a digestive system process, a physical, chemical, or biochemical process carried out by living organisms to break down ingested nutrients into components that may be easily absorbed and directed into metabolism.
GO:0034104	negative regulation of tissue remodeling. Any process that stops, prevents, or reduces the frequency, rate, or extent of tissue remodeling.
GO:0032675	regulation of interleukin-6 production. regulation of IL-6 production. regulation of interleukin-6 biosynthetic process. Any process that modulates the frequency, rate, or extent of interleukin-6 production.
GO:0009410	response to xenobiotic stimulus. drug resistance. drug susceptibility/resistance. response to drug. Any process that results in a change in state or activity of a cell or an organism (in terms of movement, secretion, enzyme production, gene expression, etc.) as a result of a stimulus from a xenobiotic, a compound foreign to the organim exposed to it. It may be synthesized by another organism (like ampicilin) or it can be a synthetic chemical.
GO:0007050	regulation of cell cycle. arrest of mitotic cell cycle progression. cell cycle arrest. cell cycle modulation. cell cycle regulation. cell cycle regulator. control of cell cycle progression. mitotic cell cycle arrest. modulation of cell cycle progression. negative regulation of cell cycle arrest. positive regulation of cell cycle arrest. regulation of cell cycle arrest. regulation of cell cycle progression. regulation of progression through cell cycle. tumor suppressor. Any process that modulates the rate or extent of progression through the cell cycle.
GO:0032436	positive regulation of proteasomal ubiquitin-dependent protein catabolic process. activation of proteasomal ubiquitin-dependent protein catabolic process. stimulation of proteasomal ubiquitin-dependent protein catabolic process. up regulation of proteasomal ubiquitin-dependent protein catabolic process. up-regulation of proteasomal ubiquitin-dependent protein catabolic process. upregulation of proteasomal ubiquitin-dependent protein catabolic process. Any process that activates or increases the frequency, rate or extent of the breakdown of a protein or peptide by hydrolysis of its peptide bonds, initiated by the covalent attachment of ubiquitin, and mediated by the proteasome.
GO:0030155	regulation of cell adhesion. cell adhesion receptor regulator activity. Any process that modulates the frequency, rate or extent of attachment of a cell to another cell or to the extracellular matrix.
GO:0048512	circadian behavior. circadian rhythm behavior. The specific behavior of an organism that recurs with a regularity of approximately 24 hours.
GO:0006325	chromatin organization. chromatin assembly or disassembly. chromatin assembly/disassembly. chromatin modification. chromatin organisation. establishment or maintenance of chromatin architecture. Any process that results in the specification, formation or maintenance of the physical structure of eukaryotic chromatin.
GO:0030334	regulation of cell migration. Any process that modulates the frequency, rate or extent of cell migration.
GO:0071902	positive regulation of protein serine/threonine kinase activity. Any process that increases the rate, frequency, or extent of protein serine/threonine kinase activity.
GO:0032460	negative regulation of protein oligomerization. down regulation of protein oligomerization. down-regulation of protein oligomerization. downregulation of protein oligomerization. inhibition of protein oligomerization. Any process that stops, prevents, or reduces the frequency, rate or extent of protein oligomerization.
GO:0060252	positive regulation of glial cell proliferation. Any process that activates or increases the rate or extent of glial cell proliferation.
GO:0044089	positive regulation of cellular component biogenesis. Any process that activates or increases the frequency, rate or extent of cellular component biogenesis, a process that results in the biosynthesis of constituent macromolecules, assembly, and arrangement of constituent parts of a cellular component.
GO:0006977	DNA damage response, signal transduction by p53 class mediator resulting in cell cycle arrest. positive regulation of cell cycle arrest by p53-mediated DNA damage response. A cascade of processes induced by the cell cycle regulator phosphoprotein p53, or an equivalent protein, in response to the detection of DNA damage and resulting in the stopping or reduction in rate of the cell cycle.
GO:0009620	response to fungus. response to fungi. Any process that results in a change in state or activity of a cell or an organism (in terms of movement, secretion, enzyme production, gene expression, etc.) as a result of a stimulus from a fungus.
GO:1901566	organonitrogen compound biosynthetic process. organonitrogen compound anabolism. organonitrogen compound biosynthesis. organonitrogen compound formation. organonitrogen compound synthesis. The chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the formation of organonitrogen compound.
GO:0046887	positive regulation of hormone secretion. activation of hormone secretion. stimulation of hormone secretion. up regulation of hormone secretion. up-regulation of hormone secretion. upregulation of hormone secretion. Any process that activates or increases the frequency, rate or extent of the regulated release of a hormone from a cell.
GO:0002021	response to dietary excess. The physiological process in which dietary excess is sensed by the central nervous system, resulting in a reduction in food intake and increased energy expenditure.
GO:0045187	regulation of circadian sleep/wake cycle, sleep. regulation of sleep. Any process that modulates the frequency, rate or extent of sleep; a readily reversible state of reduced awareness and metabolic activity that occurs periodically in many animals.
GO:0097421	liver regeneration. The regrowth of lost or destroyed liver.
GO:1903364	positive regulation of protein catabolic process. activation of cellular protein breakdown. activation of cellular protein catabolic process. activation of cellular protein catabolism. activation of cellular protein degradation. activation of protein catabolic process. positive regulation of cellular protein breakdown. positive regulation of cellular protein catabolic process. positive regulation of cellular protein catabolism. positive regulation of cellular protein degradation. positive regulation of cyclin breakdown. positive regulation of cyclin catabolic process. positive regulation of cyclin catabolism. positive regulation of cyclin degradation. positive regulation of degradation of cyclin. positive regulation of protein breakdown. positive regulation of protein catabolism. positive regulation of protein degradation. stimulation of protein catabolic process. up regulation of cellular protein breakdown. up regulation of cellular protein catabolic process. up regulation of cellular protein catabolism. up regulation of cellular protein degradation. up regulation of protein catabolic process. up-regulation of cellular protein breakdown. up-regulation of cellular protein catabolic process. up-regulation of cellular protein catabolism. up-regulation of cellular protein degradation. up-regulation of protein catabolic process. upregulation of cellular protein breakdown. upregulation of cellular protein catabolic process. upregulation of cellular protein catabolism. upregulation of cellular protein degradation. upregulation of protein catabolic process. Any process that activates or increases the frequency, rate or extent of the chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the breakdown of a protein by the destruction of the native, active configuration, with or without the hydrolysis of peptide bonds.
GO:0097327	response to antineoplastic agent. Any process that results in a change in state or activity of a cell or an organism (in terms of movement, secretion, enzyme production, gene expression, etc.) as a result of an antineoplastic agent stimulus. An antineoplastic agent is a substance that inhibits or prevents the proliferation of neoplasms.
GO:0060337	type I interferon signaling pathway. type I interferon-activated signaling pathway. type I interferon-mediated signaling pathway. type I interferon-mediated signalling pathway. The series of molecular signals initiated by type I interferon binding to its receptor on the surface of a target cell, and ending with the regulation of a downstream cellular process, e.g. transcription. Type I interferons include the interferon-alpha, beta, delta, episilon, zeta, kappa, tau, and omega gene families.
GO:0005977	glycogen metabolic process. glycogen metabolism. The chemical reactions and pathways involving glycogen, a polydisperse, highly branched glucan composed of chains of D-glucose residues in alpha-(1->4) glycosidic linkage, joined together by alpha-(1->6) glycosidic linkages.
GO:0042402	cellular biogenic amine catabolic process. biogenic amine breakdown. biogenic amine catabolism. biogenic amine degradation. The chemical reactions and pathways occurring at the level of individual cells resulting in the breakdown of biogenic amines, any of a group of naturally occurring, biologically active amines, such as norepinephrine, histamine, and serotonin, many of which act as neurotransmitters.
GO:0009152	purine ribonucleotide biosynthetic process. purine ribonucleotide anabolism. purine ribonucleotide biosynthesis. purine ribonucleotide formation. purine ribonucleotide synthesis. The chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the formation of a purine ribonucleotide, a compound consisting of ribonucleoside (a purine base linked to a ribose sugar) esterified with a phosphate group at either the 3' or 5'-hydroxyl group of the sugar.
GO:1905209	positive regulation of cardiocyte differentiation. activation of cardiac cell differentiation. activation of cardiocyte differentiation. activation of heart cell differentiation. positive regulation of cardiac cell differentiation. positive regulation of heart cell differentiation. up regulation of cardiac cell differentiation. up regulation of cardiocyte differentiation. up regulation of heart cell differentiation. up-regulation of cardiac cell differentiation. up-regulation of cardiocyte differentiation. up-regulation of heart cell differentiation. upregulation of cardiac cell differentiation. upregulation of cardiocyte differentiation. upregulation of heart cell differentiation. Any process that activates or increases the frequency, rate or extent of cardiocyte differentiation.
GO:0021795	cerebral cortex cell migration. The orderly movement of cells from one site to another in the cerebral cortex.
GO:0071318	cellular response to ATP. cellular response to adenosine 5'-triphosphate. cellular response to adenosine triphosphate. Any process that results in a change in state or activity of a cell (in terms of movement, secretion, enzyme production, gene expression, etc.) as a result of an ATP (adenosine 5'-triphosphate) stimulus.
GO:0002695	negative regulation of leukocyte activation. down regulation of leukocyte activation. down-regulation of leukocyte activation. downregulation of leukocyte activation. inhibition of leukocyte activation. negative regulation of immune cell activation. negative regulation of leucocyte activation. Any process that stops, prevents, or reduces the frequency, rate, or extent of leukocyte activation.
GO:0051281	positive regulation of release of sequestered calcium ion into cytosol. activation of release of sequestered calcium ion into cytosol. positive regulation of calcium ion (Ca2+) mobilization. positive regulation of calcium mobilization. positive regulation of cytoplasmic release of sequestered calcium ion (Ca2+). positive regulation of cytoplasmic release of stored calcium ion (Ca2+). positive regulation of cytosolic release of sequestered calcium ion (Ca2+). positive regulation of cytosolic release of stored calcium ion (Ca2+). positive regulation of release of sequestered calcium ion (Ca2+). positive regulation of release of sequestered calcium ion into cytoplasm. positive regulation of release of stored calcium ion (Ca2+). positive regulation of release of stored calcium ion (Ca2+) into cytoplasm. positive regulation of release of stored calcium ion (Ca2+) into cytosol. stimulation of release of sequestered calcium ion into cytosol. up regulation of release of sequestered calcium ion into cytosol. up-regulation of release of sequestered calcium ion into cytosol. upregulation of release of sequestered calcium ion into cytosol. Any process that activates or increases the frequency, rate or extent of the release into the cytosolic compartment of calcium ions sequestered in the endoplasmic reticulum or mitochondria.
GO:0019730	antimicrobial humoral response. An immune response against microbes mediated through a body fluid. Examples of this process are seen in the antimicrobial humoral response of Drosophila melanogaster and Mus musculus.
GO:0086013	membrane repolarization during cardiac muscle cell action potential. The process in which ions are transported across a membrane such that the cardiac muscle cell plasma membrane potential changes in the direction from the positive membrane potential at the peak of the action potential towards the negative resting potential.
GO:0008202	steroid metabolic process. steroid metabolism. The chemical reactions and pathways involving steroids, compounds with a 1,2,cyclopentanoperhydrophenanthrene nucleus.
GO:0016055	Wnt signaling pathway. frizzled signaling pathway. frizzled signalling pathway. Wg signaling pathway. Wg signalling pathway. Wingless signaling pathway. Wingless signalling pathway. Wnt receptor signaling pathway. Wnt receptor signalling pathway. Wnt-activated signaling pathway. The series of molecular signals initiated by binding of a Wnt protein to a frizzled family receptor on the surface of the target cell and ending with a change in cell state.
GO:0060412	ventricular septum morphogenesis. interventricular septum morphogenesis. The developmental process in which a ventricular septum is generated and organized. A ventricular septum is an anatomical structure that separates the lower chambers (ventricles) of the heart from one another.
GO:0048286	lung alveolus development. alveolarization. alveologenesis. The process whose specific outcome is the progression of the alveolus over time, from its formation to the mature structure. The alveolus is a sac for holding air in the lungs; formed by the terminal dilation of air passageways.
GO:0035418	protein localization to synapse. protein localisation to synapse. Any process in which a protein is transported to, and/or maintained at the synapse, the junction between a nerve fiber of one neuron and another neuron or muscle fiber or glial cell.
GO:0031175	neuron projection development. neurite biosynthesis. neurite development. neurite formation. neurite growth. neurite outgrowth. The process whose specific outcome is the progression of a neuron projection over time, from its formation to the mature structure. A neuron projection is any process extending from a neural cell, such as axons or dendrites (collectively called neurites).
GO:0070168	negative regulation of biomineral tissue development. Any process that stops, prevents, or reduces the frequency, rate or extent of biomineral tissue development, the formation of hard tissues that consist mainly of inorganic compounds.
GO:0001541	ovarian follicle development. follicular phase. The process whose specific outcome is the progression of the ovarian follicle over time, from its formation to the mature structure.
GO:0009607	response to biotic stimulus. response to biotic stress. Any process that results in a change in state or activity of a cell or an organism (in terms of movement, secretion, enzyme production, gene expression, etc.) as a result of a biotic stimulus, a stimulus caused or produced by a living organism.
GO:0006595	polyamine metabolic process. polyamine metabolism. The chemical reactions and pathways involving polyamines, any organic compound containing two or more amino groups.
GO:0019400	alditol metabolic process. alditol metabolism. The chemical reactions and pathways involving alditols, any polyhydric alcohol derived from the acyclic form of a monosaccharide by reduction of its aldehyde or keto group to an alcoholic group.
GO:0046330	positive regulation of JNK cascade. activation of JNK cascade. stimulation of JNK cascade. up regulation of JNK cascade. up-regulation of JNK cascade. upregulation of JNK cascade. Any process that activates or increases the frequency, rate or extent of signal transduction mediated by the JNK cascade.
GO:0042475	odontogenesis of dentin-containing tooth. odontogenesis of dentine-containing teeth. odontogenesis of dentine-containing tooth. odontogeny. odontosis. tooth development. The process whose specific outcome is the progression of a dentin-containing tooth over time, from its formation to the mature structure. A dentin-containing tooth is a hard, bony organ borne on the jaw or other bone of a vertebrate, and is composed mainly of dentin, a dense calcified substance, covered by a layer of enamel.
GO:0050877	nervous system process. neurological system process. neurophysiological process. pan-neural process. A organ system process carried out by any of the organs or tissues of neurological system.
GO:0030097	hemopoiesis. blood cell biosynthesis. blood cell formation. haemopoiesis. hematopoiesis. The process whose specific outcome is the progression of the myeloid and lymphoid derived organ/tissue systems of the blood and other parts of the body over time, from formation to the mature structure. The site of hemopoiesis is variable during development, but occurs primarily in bone marrow or kidney in many adult vertebrates.
GO:0051568	histone H3-K4 methylation. histone H3 K4 methylation. histone H3K4me. histone lysine H3 K4 methylation. The modification of histone H3 by addition of one or more methyl groups to lysine at position 4 of the histone.
GO:0010591	regulation of lamellipodium assembly. regulation of lamellipodium biogenesis. Any process that modulates the rate, frequency or extent of the formation of a lamellipodium, a thin sheetlike extension of the surface of a migrating cell.
GO:0006826	iron ion transport. ferric ion import. ferric ion transport. ferric iron import. ferric iron transport. ferric iron uptake. ferrous ion transport. ferrous iron transport. iron ion import. iron transport. The directed movement of iron (Fe) ions into, out of or within a cell, or between cells, by means of some agent such as a transporter or pore.
GO:0001756	somitogenesis. formation of mesodermal clusters. The formation of mesodermal clusters that are arranged segmentally along the anterior posterior axis of an embryo.
GO:0036230	granulocyte activation. The change in morphology and behavior of a granulocyte resulting from exposure to a cytokine, chemokine, cellular ligand, or soluble factor.
GO:0015031	protein transport. enzyme transport. The directed movement of proteins into, out of or within a cell, or between cells, by means of some agent such as a transporter or pore.
GO:0034599	cellular response to oxidative stress. adaptive response to oxidative stress. Any process that results in a change in state or activity of a cell (in terms of movement, secretion, enzyme production, gene expression, etc.) as a result of oxidative stress, a state often resulting from exposure to high levels of reactive oxygen species, e.g. superoxide anions, hydrogen peroxide (H2O2), and hydroxyl radicals.
GO:0006694	steroid biosynthetic process. steroid anabolism. steroid biosynthesis. steroid formation. steroid synthesis. steroidogenesis. The chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the formation of steroids, compounds with a 1,2,cyclopentanoperhydrophenanthrene nucleus; includes de novo formation and steroid interconversion by modification.
GO:0035108	limb morphogenesis. limb bud morphogenesis. The process in which the anatomical structures of a limb are generated and organized. A limb is a paired appendage of a tetrapod used for locomotion or grasping.
GO:0060396	growth hormone receptor signaling pathway. cellular response to growth hormone. GH receptor signaling pathway. growth hormone receptor signalling pathway. The series of molecular signals generated as a consequence of growth hormone receptor binding to its physiological ligand.
GO:0033993	response to lipid. Any process that results in a change in state or activity of a cell or an organism (in terms of movement, secretion, enzyme production, gene expression, etc.) as a result of a lipid stimulus.
GO:0055082	cellular chemical homeostasis. Any biological process involved in the maintenance of an internal steady state of a chemical at the level of the cell.
GO:1903533	regulation of protein targeting. regulation of nascent polypeptide association. regulation of protein sorting along secretory pathway. Any process that modulates the frequency, rate or extent of protein targeting.
GO:0110111	negative regulation of animal organ morphogenesis. Any process that stops, prevents, or reduces the frequency, rate or extent of animal organ morphogenesis.
GO:0016482	cytosolic transport. The directed movement of substances or organelles within the cytosol.
GO:0007179	transforming growth factor beta receptor signaling pathway. TGF-beta receptor signaling pathway. TGF-beta receptor signalling pathway. TGFbeta receptor signaling pathway. TGFbeta receptor signalling pathway. transforming growth factor beta receptor signalling pathway. The series of molecular signals initiated by an extracellular ligand binding to a transforming growth factor beta receptor on the surface of a target cell, and ending with the regulation of a downstream cellular process, e.g. transcription.
GO:0032026	response to magnesium ion. Any process that results in a change in state or activity of a cell or an organism (in terms of movement, secretion, enzyme production, gene expression, etc.) as a result of a magnesium ion stimulus.
GO:0022411	cellular component disassembly. cell structure disassembly. cellular component disassembly at cellular level. A cellular process that results in the breakdown of a cellular component.
GO:0071772	response to BMP. response to BMP stimulus. response to bone morphogenetic protein stimulus. Any process that results in a change in state or activity of a cell or an organism (in terms of movement, secretion, enzyme production, gene expression, etc.) as a result of a bone morphogenetic protein (BMP) stimulus.
GO:0072089	stem cell proliferation. The multiplication or reproduction of stem cells, resulting in the expansion of a stem cell population. A stem cell is a cell that retains the ability to divide and proliferate throughout life to provide progenitor cells that can differentiate into specialized cells.
GO:2000772	regulation of cellular senescence. Any process that modulates the frequency, rate or extent of cellular senescence.
GO:0021537	telencephalon development. cerebrum development. The process whose specific outcome is the progression of the telencephalon over time, from its formation to the mature structure. The telencephalon is the paired anteriolateral division of the prosencephalon plus the lamina terminalis from which the olfactory lobes, cerebral cortex, and subcortical nuclei are derived.
GO:0003181	atrioventricular valve morphogenesis. AV valve morphogenesis. The process in which the structure of the atrioventricular valve is generated and organized.
GO:0043278	response to morphine. Any process that results in a change in state or activity of a cell or an organism (in terms of movement, secretion, enzyme production, gene expression, etc.) as a result of a morphine stimulus. Morphine is an opioid alkaloid, isolated from opium, with a complex ring structure.
GO:0042060	wound healing. The series of events that restore integrity to a damaged tissue, following an injury.
GO:0070372	regulation of ERK1 and ERK2 cascade. regulation of ERK cascade. regulation of ERK1 and ERK2 signaling pathway. regulation of ERK1 and ERK2 signalling pathway. regulation of ERK1 cascade. regulation of ERK1/2 cascade. regulation of ERK2 cascade. regulation of MAPK1 cascade. regulation of MAPK3 cascade. Any process that modulates the frequency, rate or extent of signal transduction mediated by the ERK1 and ERK2 cascade.
GO:0022602	ovulation cycle process. estrous cycle process. menstrual cycle process. A process involved in the sexual cycle seen in females, often with physiologic changes in the endometrium that recur at regular intervals during the reproductive years.
GO:0006869	lipid transport. The directed movement of lipids into, out of or within a cell, or between cells, by means of some agent such as a transporter or pore. Lipids are compounds soluble in an organic solvent but not, or sparingly, in an aqueous solvent.
GO:0045987	positive regulation of smooth muscle contraction. activation of smooth muscle contraction. stimulation of smooth muscle contraction. up regulation of smooth muscle contraction. up-regulation of smooth muscle contraction. upregulation of smooth muscle contraction. Any process that activates or increases the frequency, rate or extent of smooth muscle contraction.
GO:0042537	benzene-containing compound metabolic process. benzene and derivative metabolic process. benzene and derivative metabolism. benzene-containing compound metabolism. The chemical reactions and pathways involving benzene, C6H6, a volatile, very inflammable liquid, contained in the naphtha produced by the destructive distillation of coal, from which it is separated by fractional distillation, or any of its derivatives.
GO:0043491	protein kinase B signaling. AKT signal transduction. AKT signaling. AKT signaling cascade. AKT signalling cascade. PKB signal transduction. PKB signaling. PKB signaling cascade. PKB signalling cascade. protein kinase B signal transduction. protein kinase B signaling cascade. protein kinase B signalling cascade. A series of reactions, mediated by the intracellular serine/threonine kinase protein kinase B (also called AKT), which occurs as a result of a single trigger reaction or compound.
GO:0014013	regulation of gliogenesis. Any process that modulates the frequency, rate or extent of gliogenesis, the formation of mature glia.
GO:0072163	mesonephric epithelium development. The process whose specific outcome is the progression of an epithelium in the mesonephros over time, from its formation to the mature structure. An epithelium is a tissue that covers the internal or external surfaces of an anatomical structure.
GO:0048010	vascular endothelial growth factor receptor signaling pathway. VEGF receptor signaling pathway. VEGF receptor signalling pathway. VEGFR signaling pathway. The series of molecular signals initiated by a ligand binding to a vascular endothelial growth factor receptor (VEGFR) on the surface of the target cell, and ending with the regulation of a downstream cellular process, e.g. transcription.
GO:0030595	leukocyte chemotaxis. immune cell chemotaxis. leucocyte chemotaxis. The movement of a leukocyte in response to an external stimulus.
GO:0048641	regulation of skeletal muscle tissue development. Any process that modulates the frequency, rate or extent of skeletal muscle tissue development.
GO:0050663	cytokine production. cytokine biosynthetic process. cytokine metabolic process. cytokine secretion. interferon production. interferon secretion. interleukin production. interleukin secretion. The appearance of a cytokine due to biosynthesis or secretion following a cellular stimulus, resulting in an increase in its intracellular or extracellular levels.
GO:0044783	mitotic G1 DNA damage checkpoint signaling. G1 DNA damage checkpoint. G1/S DNA damage checkpoint. intracellular signal transduction involved in G1 DNA damage checkpoint. intracellular signal transduction involved in G1/S DNA damage checkpoint. intracellular signal transduction pathway involved in G1 DNA damage checkpoint. intracellular signal transduction pathway involved in G1/S DNA damage checkpoint. intracellular signaling cascade involved in G1 DNA damage checkpoint. intracellular signaling cascade involved in G1/S DNA damage checkpoint. intracellular signaling chain involved in G1 DNA damage checkpoint. intracellular signaling chain involved in G1/S DNA damage checkpoint. intracellular signaling pathway involved in G1 DNA damage checkpoint. intracellular signaling pathway involved in G1/S DNA damage checkpoint. mitotic cell cycle G1/S transition DNA damage checkpoint. mitotic G1 DNA damage checkpoint. signal transduction involved in mitotic cell cycle G1/S transition DNA damage checkpoint. signal transduction involved in mitotic G1 DNA damage checkpoint. signal transduction via intracellular signaling cascade involved in G1 DNA damage checkpoint. signal transduction via intracellular signaling cascade involved in G1/S DNA damage checkpoint. signal transmission via intracellular cascade involved in G1 DNA damage checkpoint. A signal transduction process that contributes to a mitotic cell cycle G1/S transition DNA damage checkpoint.
GO:0048585	negative regulation of response to stimulus. down regulation of response to stimulus. down-regulation of response to stimulus. downregulation of response to stimulus. inhibition of response to stimulus. Any process that stops, prevents, or reduces the frequency, rate or extent of a response to a stimulus. Response to stimulus is a change in state or activity of a cell or an organism (in terms of movement, secretion, enzyme production, gene expression, etc.) as a result of a stimulus.
GO:0070304	positive regulation of stress-activated protein kinase signaling cascade. activation of stress-activated protein kinase signaling pathway. positive regulation of SAPK signaling pathway. positive regulation of stress-activated protein kinase signaling pathway. positive regulation of stress-activated protein kinase signalling pathway. stimulation of stress-activated protein kinase signaling pathway. up regulation of stress-activated protein kinase signaling pathway. up-regulation of stress-activated protein kinase signaling pathway. upregulation of stress-activated protein kinase signaling pathway. Any process that activates or increases the frequency, rate or extent of signaling via the stress-activated protein kinase signaling cascade.
GO:0150063	visual system development. optic pathway development. visual pathway development. The process whose specific outcome is the progression of the visual system over time, from its formation to the mature structure, including the eye, parts of the central nervous system (CNS) involved in processing of visual inputs, and connecting nerve pathways.
GO:0032354	response to follicle-stimulating hormone. response to follicle stimulating hormone stimulus. response to follicle-stimulating hormone stimulus. response to FSH stimulus. Any process that results in a change in state or activity of a cell or an organism (in terms of movement, secretion, enzyme production, gene expression, etc.) as a result of a follicle-stimulating hormone stimulus.
GO:0000904	cell morphogenesis involved in differentiation. The change in form (cell shape and size) that occurs when relatively unspecialized cells, e.g. embryonic or regenerative cells, acquire specialized structural and/or functional features that characterize the cells, tissues, or organs of the mature organism or some other relatively stable phase of the organism's life history.
GO:0018205	peptidyl-lysine modification. The modification of peptidyl-lysine.
GO:0007338	single fertilization. zygote biosynthesis. zygote formation. The union of male and female gametes to form a zygote.
GO:0050766	positive regulation of phagocytosis. activation of phagocytosis. stimulation of phagocytosis. up regulation of phagocytosis. up-regulation of phagocytosis. upregulation of phagocytosis. Any process that activates or increases the frequency, rate or extent of phagocytosis.
GO:0062014	negative regulation of small molecule metabolic process. negative regulation of small molecule metabolism. Any process that stops, prevents or reduces the frequency, rate or extent of a small molecule metabolic process.
GO:0009060	aerobic respiration. The enzymatic release of energy from inorganic and organic compounds (especially carbohydrates and fats) which requires oxygen as the terminal electron acceptor.
GO:0062012	regulation of small molecule metabolic process. regulation of small molecule metabolism. Any process that modulates the rate, frequency or extent of a small molecule metabolic process.
GO:0043392	negative regulation of DNA binding. down regulation of DNA binding. down-regulation of DNA binding. downregulation of DNA binding. inhibition of DNA binding. Any process that stops or reduces the frequency, rate or extent of DNA binding. DNA binding is any process in which a gene product interacts selectively with DNA (deoxyribonucleic acid).
GO:0045934	negative regulation of nucleobase-containing compound metabolic process. down regulation of nucleobase, nucleoside, nucleotide and nucleic acid metabolic process. down-regulation of nucleobase, nucleoside, nucleotide and nucleic acid metabolic process. downregulation of nucleobase, nucleoside, nucleotide and nucleic acid metabolic process. inhibition of nucleobase, nucleoside, nucleotide and nucleic acid metabolic process. negative regulation of nucleobase, nucleoside, nucleotide and nucleic acid metabolic process. negative regulation of nucleobase, nucleoside, nucleotide and nucleic acid metabolism. Any cellular process that stops, prevents, or reduces the frequency, rate or extent of the chemical reactions and pathways involving nucleobases, nucleosides, nucleotides and nucleic acids.
GO:0070374	positive regulation of ERK1 and ERK2 cascade. activation of ERK1 and ERK2 cascade. positive regulation of ERK cascade. positive regulation of ERK1 and ERK2 signaling pathway. positive regulation of ERK1 and ERK2 signalling pathway. positive regulation of ERK1 cascade. positive regulation of ERK1/2 cascade. positive regulation of ERK2 cascade. positive regulation of MAPK1 cascade. positive regulation of MAPK3 cascade. stimulation of ERK1 and ERK2 cascade. up regulation of ERK1 and ERK2 cascade. up-regulation of ERK1 and ERK2 cascade. upregulation of ERK1 and ERK2 cascade. Any process that activates or increases the frequency, rate or extent of signal transduction mediated by the ERK1 and ERK2 cascade.
GO:0010256	endomembrane system organization. endomembrane organization. endomembrane system organisation. A process that is carried out at the cellular level which results in the assembly, arrangement of constituent parts, or disassembly of the endomembrane system.
GO:0036148	phosphatidylglycerol acyl-chain remodeling. Remodeling the acyl chains of phosphatidylglycerol, through sequential deacylation and re-acylation reactions, to generate phosphatidylglycerol containing different types of fatty acid acyl chains.
GO:0030258	lipid modification. The covalent alteration of one or more fatty acids in a lipid, resulting in a change in the properties of the lipid.
GO:0009266	response to temperature stimulus. response to thermal stimulus. Any process that results in a change in state or activity of a cell or an organism (in terms of movement, secretion, enzyme production, gene expression, etc.) as a result of a temperature stimulus.
GO:0070875	positive regulation of glycogen metabolic process. positive regulation of glycogen metabolism. Any process that activates or increases the frequency, rate or extent of the chemical reactions and pathways involving glycogen.
GO:0001704	formation of primary germ layer. The formation of the ectoderm, mesoderm and endoderm during gastrulation.
GO:0050996	positive regulation of lipid catabolic process. activation of lipid catabolic process. positive regulation of lipid breakdown. positive regulation of lipid catabolism. positive regulation of lipid degradation. stimulation of lipid catabolic process. up regulation of lipid catabolic process. up-regulation of lipid catabolic process. upregulation of lipid catabolic process. Any process that activates or increases the frequency, rate or extent of the chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the breakdown of lipids.
GO:0000165	MAPK cascade. ERK/MAPK cascade. MAP kinase cascade. MAP kinase kinase kinase cascade. MAPK signal transduction. MAPK signaling. MAPK signalling. MAPKKK cascade. MAPKKK cascade during sporulation. mitogen-activated protein kinase cascade. An intracellular protein kinase cascade containing at least a MAPK, a MAPKK and a MAP3K. The cascade can also contain an additional tiers: the upstream MAP4K. The kinases in each tier phosphorylate and activate the kinase in the downstream tier to transmit a signal within a cell.
GO:0022412	cellular process involved in reproduction in multicellular organism. reproductive cellular process in multicellular organism. A process, occurring at the cellular level, that is involved in the reproductive function of a multicellular organism.
GO:0045071	negative regulation of viral genome replication. down regulation of viral genome replication. down-regulation of viral genome replication. downregulation of viral genome replication. inhibition of viral genome replication. Any process that stops, prevents, or reduces the frequency, rate or extent of viral genome replication.
GO:0031103	axon regeneration. The regrowth of axons following their loss or damage.
GO:0051249	regulation of lymphocyte activation. Any process that modulates the frequency, rate or extent of lymphocyte activation.
GO:0007157	heterophilic cell-cell adhesion via plasma membrane cell adhesion molecules. agglutination. The attachment of an adhesion molecule in one cell to a nonidentical adhesion molecule in an adjacent cell.
GO:0030099	myeloid cell differentiation. The process in which a relatively unspecialized myeloid precursor cell acquires the specialized features of any cell of the myeloid leukocyte, megakaryocyte, thrombocyte, or erythrocyte lineages.
GO:0048864	stem cell development. The process whose specific outcome is the progression of the stem cell over time, from its formation to the mature structure. Cell development does not include the steps involved in committing a cell to its specific fate.
GO:0062013	positive regulation of small molecule metabolic process. positive regulation of small molecule metabolism. Any process that activates or increases the frequency, rate or extent of a small molecule metabolic process.
GO:0046579	positive regulation of Ras protein signal transduction. activation of Ras protein signal transduction. stimulation of Ras protein signal transduction. up regulation of Ras protein signal transduction. up-regulation of Ras protein signal transduction. upregulation of Ras protein signal transduction. Any process that activates or increases the frequency, rate or extent of Ras protein signal transduction.
GO:0060149	negative regulation of post-transcriptional gene silencing. negative regulation of posttranscriptional gene silencing. Any process that decreases the frequency, rate or extent of the inactivation of gene expression by a posttranscriptional mechanism.
GO:0000122	negative regulation of transcription by RNA polymerase II. down regulation of global transcription from RNA polymerase II promoter. down regulation of transcription from RNA polymerase II promoter. down-regulation of global transcription from RNA polymerase II promoter. down-regulation of transcription from RNA polymerase II promoter. downregulation of global transcription from RNA polymerase II promoter. downregulation of transcription from RNA polymerase II promoter. inhibition of global transcription from RNA polymerase II promoter. inhibition of transcription from RNA polymerase II promoter. negative regulation of gene-specific transcription from RNA polymerase II promoter. negative regulation of global transcription from Pol II promoter. negative regulation of transcription from Pol II promoter. negative regulation of transcription from RNA polymerase II promoter. negative regulation of transcription from RNA polymerase II promoter, global. Any process that stops, prevents, or reduces the frequency, rate or extent of transcription mediated by RNA polymerase II.
GO:0071559	response to transforming growth factor beta. response to TGF-beta stimulus. response to TGFbeta stimulus. response to transforming growth factor beta stimulus. Any process that results in a change in state or activity of a cell or an organism (in terms of movement, secretion, enzyme production, gene expression, etc.) as a result of a transforming growth factor beta stimulus.
GO:0006936	muscle contraction. A process in which force is generated within muscle tissue, resulting in a change in muscle geometry. Force generation involves a chemo-mechanical energy conversion step that is carried out by the actin/myosin complex activity, which generates force through ATP hydrolysis.
GO:0031663	lipopolysaccharide-mediated signaling pathway. lipopolysaccharide-mediated signalling pathway. LPS-mediated signaling pathway. The series of molecular signals initiated by the binding of a lipopolysaccharide (LPS) to a receptor on the surface of a target cell, and ending with the regulation of a downstream cellular process, e.g. transcription. Lipopolysaccharides are major components of the outer membrane of Gram-negative bacteria, making them prime targets for recognition by the immune system.
GO:0090075	relaxation of muscle. A process in which the extent of muscle contraction is reduced. Muscle relaxation can involve a number of processes including the removal of calcium from the cytoplasm to the sarcoplasmic reticulum lumen through the action of Ca2+ ATPases. In some muscles, calcium-independent pathways also play a role in muscle relaxation by decreasing the phosphorylation state of myosin light chain.
GO:0045745	positive regulation of G protein-coupled receptor signaling pathway. activation of G-protein coupled receptor protein signaling pathway. positive regulation of G protein coupled receptor protein signaling pathway. positive regulation of G protein coupled receptor protein signalling pathway. positive regulation of G-protein coupled receptor protein signaling pathway. positive regulation of G-protein coupled receptor protein signalling pathway. positive regulation of G-protein-coupled receptor protein signaling pathway. positive regulation of G-protein-coupled receptor protein signalling pathway. positive regulation of GPCR protein signaling pathway. positive regulation of GPCR protein signalling pathway. stimulation of G-protein coupled receptor protein signaling pathway. up regulation of G-protein coupled receptor protein signaling pathway. up-regulation of G-protein coupled receptor protein signaling pathway. upregulation of G-protein coupled receptor protein signaling pathway. Any process that activates or increases the frequency, rate or extent of G protein-coupled receptor signaling pathway activity.
GO:0035601	protein deacylation. protein amino acid deacylation. The removal of an acyl group, any group or radical of the form RCO- where R is an organic group, from a protein amino acid.
GO:0001824	blastocyst development. The process whose specific outcome is the progression of the blastocyst over time, from its formation to the mature structure. The mammalian blastocyst is a hollow ball of cells containing two cell types, the inner cell mass and the trophectoderm.
GO:0000302	response to reactive oxygen species. response to active oxygen species. response to AOS. response to reactive oxidative species. response to reactive oxygen intermediate. response to ROI. response to ROS. Any process that results in a change in state or activity of a cell or an organism (in terms of movement, secretion, enzyme production, gene expression, etc.) as a result of a reactive oxygen species stimulus. Reactive oxygen species include singlet oxygen, superoxide, and oxygen free radicals.
GO:1903035	negative regulation of response to wounding. down regulation of physiological response to wounding. down regulation of response to wounding. down-regulation of physiological response to wounding. down-regulation of response to wounding. downregulation of physiological response to wounding. downregulation of response to wounding. inhibition of physiological response to wounding. inhibition of response to wounding. negative regulation of physiological response to wounding. Any process that stops, prevents or reduces the frequency, rate or extent of response to wounding.
GO:0043393	regulation of protein binding. Any process that modulates the frequency, rate or extent of protein binding.
GO:1904019	epithelial cell apoptotic process. epithelial cell apoptosis. epitheliocyte apoptosis. epitheliocyte apoptotic process. Any apoptotic process in an epithelial cell.
GO:0001662	behavioral fear response. behavioural fear response. An acute behavioral change resulting from a perceived external threat.
GO:0009154	purine ribonucleotide catabolic process. purine ribonucleotide breakdown. purine ribonucleotide catabolism. purine ribonucleotide degradation. The chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the breakdown of a purine ribonucleotide, a compound consisting of ribonucleoside (a purine base linked to a ribose sugar) esterified with a phosphate group at either the 3' or 5'-hydroxyl group of the sugar.
GO:0045815	epigenetic maintenance of chromatin in transcription-competent conformation. activation of gene expression, epigenetic. chromatin-mediated maintenance of transcription. euchromatin assembly. euchromatin organisation. euchromatin organization. long-term maintenance of gene activation. maintenance of chromatin in transcription-competent conformation. positive regulation of gene expression, epigenetic. stimulation of gene expression, epigenetic. up regulation of gene expression, epigenetic. up-regulation of gene expression, epigenetic. upregulation of gene expression, epigenetic. An epigenetic process that capacitates gene expression by remodelling of chromatin by either modifying the chromatin fiber, the nucleosomal histones, or the DNA.
GO:0050796	regulation of insulin secretion. Any process that modulates the frequency, rate or extent of the regulated release of insulin.
GO:0032259	methylation. The process in which a methyl group is covalently attached to a molecule.
GO:0003209	cardiac atrium morphogenesis. The process in which the cardiac atrium is generated and organized. A cardiac atrium receives blood from a vein and pumps it to a cardiac ventricle.
GO:0002762	negative regulation of myeloid leukocyte differentiation. down regulation of myeloid leukocyte differentiation. down-regulation of myeloid leukocyte differentiation. downregulation of myeloid leukocyte differentiation. inhibition of myeloid leukocyte differentiation. Any process that stops, prevents, or reduces the frequency, rate, or extent of myeloid leukocyte differentiation.
GO:0031018	endocrine pancreas development. The process whose specific outcome is the progression of the endocrine pancreas over time, from its formation to the mature structure. The endocrine pancreas is made up of islet cells that produce insulin, glucagon and somatostatin.
GO:1900274	regulation of phospholipase C activity. regulation of lecithinase C activity. regulation of lipophosphodiesterase C. regulation of phosphatidase C. Any process that modulates the frequency, rate or extent of phospholipase C activity.
GO:0043367	CD4-positive, alpha-beta T cell differentiation. CD4-positive, alpha beta T cell development. CD4-positive, alpha beta T cell differentiation. CD4-positive, alpha-beta T lymphocyte differentiation. CD4-positive, alpha-beta T-cell differentiation. CD4-positive, alpha-beta T-lymphocyte differentiation. The process in which a relatively unspecialized T cell acquires specialized features of a mature CD4-positive, alpha-beta T cell.
GO:0007218	neuropeptide signaling pathway. neuropeptide signalling pathway. A G protein-coupled receptor signaling pathway initiated by a neuropeptide binding to its receptor on the surface of a target cell, and ending with the regulation of a downstream cellular process.
GO:0035637	multicellular organismal signaling. multicellular organismal signalling. The transfer of information occurring at the level of a multicellular organism.
GO:0006890	retrograde vesicle-mediated transport, Golgi to endoplasmic reticulum. cis-Golgi to rough endoplasmic reticulum transport. cis-Golgi to rough endoplasmic reticulum vesicle-mediated transport. cis-Golgi to rough ER transport. cis-Golgi to rough ER vesicle-mediated transport. retrograde (Golgi to ER) transport. retrograde transport, Golgi to endoplasmic reticulum. retrograde transport, Golgi to ER. retrograde vesicle-mediated transport, Golgi to ER. The directed movement of substances from the Golgi back to the endoplasmic reticulum, mediated by vesicles bearing specific protein coats such as COPI or COG.
GO:0032872	regulation of stress-activated MAPK cascade. regulation of p38 MAPK signaling. regulation of p38 MAPK signalling. regulation of stress-activated MAPK signaling pathway. regulation of stress-activated MAPK signalling pathway. regulation of stress-activated MAPKKK cascade. regulation of stress-activated MAPKKK signaling pathway. regulation of stress-activated MAPKKK signalling pathway. Any process that modulates the frequency, rate or extent of signal transduction mediated by the stress-activated MAPK cascade.
GO:0019752	carboxylic acid metabolic process. carboxylic acid metabolism. The chemical reactions and pathways involving carboxylic acids, any organic acid containing one or more carboxyl (COOH) groups or anions (COO-).
GO:0032101	regulation of response to external stimulus. Any process that modulates the frequency, rate or extent of a response to an external stimulus.
GO:0007628	adult walking behavior. adult walking behaviour. The behavior of an adult relating to the progression of that organism along the ground by the process of lifting and setting down each leg.
GO:0060993	kidney morphogenesis. Morphogenesis of a kidney. A kidney is an organ that filters the blood and excretes the end products of body metabolism in the form of urine.
GO:0050767	regulation of neurogenesis. Any process that modulates the frequency, rate or extent of neurogenesis, the generation of cells in the nervous system.
GO:0086004	regulation of cardiac muscle cell contraction. Any process that modulates the frequency, rate or extent of cardiac muscle cell contraction.
GO:1904029	regulation of cyclin-dependent protein kinase activity. Any process that modulates the frequency, rate or extent of cyclin-dependent protein kinase activity.
GO:0030865	cortical cytoskeleton organization. cortical cytoskeleton organisation. cortical cytoskeleton organization and biogenesis. A process that is carried out at the cellular level which results in the assembly, arrangement of constituent parts, or disassembly of cytoskeletal structures in the cell cortex, i.e. just beneath the plasma membrane.
GO:0043123	positive regulation of I-kappaB kinase/NF-kappaB signaling. activation of I-kappaB kinase/NF-kappaB cascade. positive regulation of I-kappaB kinase/NF-kappaB cascade. stimulation of I-kappaB kinase/NF-kappaB cascade. up regulation of I-kappaB kinase/NF-kappaB cascade. up-regulation of I-kappaB kinase/NF-kappaB cascade. upregulation of I-kappaB kinase/NF-kappaB cascade. Any process that activates or increases the frequency, rate or extent of I-kappaB kinase/NF-kappaB signaling.
GO:0030212	hyaluronan metabolic process. hyaluronan metabolism. The chemical reactions and pathways involving hyaluronan, the naturally occurring anionic form of hyaluronic acid, any member of a group of glycosaminoglycans, the repeat units of which consist of beta-1,4 linked D-glucuronyl-beta-(1,3)-N-acetyl-D-glucosamine.
GO:0051241	negative regulation of multicellular organismal process. down regulation of multicellular organismal process. down-regulation of multicellular organismal process. downregulation of multicellular organismal process. inhibition of multicellular organismal process. Any process that stops, prevents, or reduces the frequency, rate or extent of an organismal process, the processes pertinent to the function of an organism above the cellular level; includes the integrated processes of tissues and organs.
GO:0042632	cholesterol homeostasis. positive regulation of cholesterol homeostasis. regulation of cholesterol homeostasis. Any process involved in the maintenance of an internal steady state of cholesterol within an organism or cell.
GO:0051301	cell division. The process resulting in division and partitioning of components of a cell to form more cells; may or may not be accompanied by the physical separation of a cell into distinct, individually membrane-bounded daughter cells.
GO:0007271	synaptic transmission, cholinergic. cholinergic synaptic transmission. The vesicular release of acetylcholine from a presynapse, across a chemical synapse, the subsequent activation of dopamine receptors at the postsynapse of a target cell (neuron, muscle, or secretory cell) and the effects of this activation on the postsynaptic membrane potential and ionic composition of the postsynaptic cytosol. This process encompasses both spontaneous and evoked release of neurotransmitter and all parts of synaptic vesicle exocytosis. Evoked transmission starts with the arrival of an action potential at the presynapse.
GO:1901361	organic cyclic compound catabolic process. organic cyclic compound breakdown. organic cyclic compound catabolism. organic cyclic compound degradation. The chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the breakdown of organic cyclic compound.
GO:0071480	cellular response to gamma radiation. cellular response to gamma ray. cellular response to gamma-ray photon. Any process that results in a change in state or activity of a cell (in terms of movement, secretion, enzyme production, gene expression, etc.) as a result of a gamma radiation stimulus. Gamma radiation is a form of electromagnetic radiation (EMR) or light emission of a specific frequency produced from sub-atomic particle interaction, such as electron-positron annihilation and radioactive decay. Gamma rays are generally characterized as EMR having the highest frequency and energy, and also the shortest wavelength, within the electromagnetic radiation spectrum.
GO:0051180	vitamin transport. vitamin or cofactor transport. The directed movement of vitamins into, out of or within a cell, or between cells, by means of some agent such as a transporter or pore. A vitamin is one of a number of unrelated organic substances that occur in many foods in small amounts and that are necessary in trace amounts for the normal metabolic functioning of the body.
GO:0007498	mesoderm development. The process whose specific outcome is the progression of the mesoderm over time, from its formation to the mature structure. The mesoderm is the middle germ layer that develops into muscle, bone, cartilage, blood and connective tissue.
GO:0070207	protein homotrimerization. protein homotrimer assembly. protein homotrimer biosynthesis. protein homotrimer biosynthetic process. protein homotrimer formation. The formation of a protein homotrimer, a macromolecular structure consisting of three noncovalently associated identical subunits.
GO:0002758	innate immune response-activating signal transduction. defence response signaling pathway, resistance gene-dependent. defence response signaling pathway, resistance gene-independent. defence response signalling pathway, resistance gene-dependent. defence response signalling pathway, resistance gene-independent. defense response signaling pathway, resistance gene-dependent. defense response signaling pathway, resistance gene-independent. defense response signalling pathway, resistance gene-dependent. effector triggered immunity. effector-triggered immune signaling. effector-triggered immunity. The series of molecular signals generated as a consequence of a pathogen or microbial effector binding to a plant 'resistance-gene' receptor to activate a plant immune response, usually plant-type hypersensitive response.
GO:0002726	positive regulation of T cell cytokine production. activation of T cell cytokine production. positive regulation of T lymphocyte cytokine production. positive regulation of T-cell cytokine production. positive regulation of T-lymphocyte cytokine production. stimulation of T cell cytokine production. up regulation of T cell cytokine production. up-regulation of T cell cytokine production. upregulation of T cell cytokine production. Any process that activates or increases the frequency, rate, or extent of T cell cytokine production.
GO:0030857	negative regulation of epithelial cell differentiation. down regulation of epithelial cell differentiation. down-regulation of epithelial cell differentiation. downregulation of epithelial cell differentiation. inhibition of epithelial cell differentiation. Any process that stops, prevents, or reduces the frequency, rate or extent of epithelial cell differentiation.
GO:0055013	cardiac muscle cell development. cardiac muscle fiber development. cardiac muscle fibre development. cardiomyocyte cell development. heart muscle cell development. heart muscle fiber development. The process whose specific outcome is the progression of a cardiac muscle cell over time, from its formation to the mature state.
GO:0051154	negative regulation of striated muscle cell differentiation. down regulation of striated muscle cell differentiation. down-regulation of striated muscle cell differentiation. downregulation of striated muscle cell differentiation. inhibition of striated muscle cell differentiation. Any process that stops, prevents, or reduces the frequency, rate or extent of striated muscle cell differentiation.
GO:0006342	heterochromatin assembly. chromatin silencing. chromatin-mediated silencing. establishment of chromatin silencing. establishment of heterochromatic silencing. establishment of heterochromatin architecture. establishment of heterochromatin architecture involved in chromatin silencing at centromere outer repeat region. establishment of heterochromatin architecture involved in chromatin silencing at pericentric region. heterochromatic silencing. heterochromatin assembly involved in chromatin silencing. heterochromatin assembly involved in chromatin silencing at centromere outer repeat region. heterochromatin assembly involved in chromatin silencing at pericentric region. heterochromatin formation. heterochromatin formation involved in chromatin silencing. heterochromatin formation involved in chromatin silencing at centromere outer repeat region. heterochromatin formation involved in chromatin silencing at pericentric region. heterochromatin maintenance. TGS. transcriptional gene silencing. An epigenetic gene silencing mechanism that involves the assembly of chromatin into heterochromatin, resulting in a chromatin conformation refractory to transcription. This process starts with heterochromatin nucleation, its spreading, and ends with heterochromatin boundary formation.
GO:0090280	positive regulation of calcium ion import. positive regulation of transmembrane calcium influx. Any process that increases the rate, frequency, or extent of the directed movement of calcium ions into a cell or organelle.
GO:0050684	regulation of mRNA processing. Any process that modulates the frequency, rate or extent of mRNA processing, those processes involved in the conversion of a primary mRNA transcript into a mature mRNA prior to its translation into polypeptide.
GO:0051291	protein heterooligomerization. protein heterooligomer assembly. protein heterooligomer biosynthesis. protein heterooligomer biosynthetic process. protein heterooligomer formation. The process of creating protein oligomers, compounds composed of a small number, usually between three and ten, of component monomers that are not all identical. Oligomers may be formed by the polymerization of a number of monomers or the depolymerization of a large protein polymer.
GO:0035162	embryonic hemopoiesis. embryonic haematopoiesis. embryonic haemopoiesis. embryonic hematopoiesis. The stages of blood cell formation that take place within the embryo.
GO:0061437	renal system vasculature development. The process whose specific outcome is the progression of vasculature of the renal system over time, from its formation to the mature structure.
GO:0051957	positive regulation of amino acid transport. activation of amino acid transport. positive regulation of amino acid transmembrane transport. stimulation of amino acid transport. up regulation of amino acid transport. up-regulation of amino acid transport. upregulation of amino acid transport. Any process that activates, maintains or increases the frequency, rate or extent of the directed movement of amino acids into, out of or within a cell, or between cells, by means of some agent such as a transporter or pore.
GO:0046545	development of primary female sexual characteristics. The process whose specific outcome is the progression of the primary female sexual characteristics over time, from their formation to the mature structure. The primary female sexual characteristics are the ovaries, and they develop in response to sex hormone secretion.
GO:0007005	mitochondrion organization. mitochondria organization. mitochondrion organisation. mitochondrion organization and biogenesis. A process that is carried out at the cellular level which results in the assembly, arrangement of constituent parts, or disassembly of a mitochondrion; includes mitochondrial morphogenesis and distribution, and replication of the mitochondrial genome as well as synthesis of new mitochondrial components.
GO:0030316	osteoclast differentiation. osteoclast cell differentiation. The process in which a relatively unspecialized monocyte acquires the specialized features of an osteoclast. An osteoclast is a specialized phagocytic cell associated with the absorption and removal of the mineralized matrix of bone tissue.
GO:0042398	cellular modified amino acid biosynthetic process. amino acid derivative biosynthetic process. cellular amino acid derivative anabolism. cellular amino acid derivative biosynthesis. cellular amino acid derivative biosynthetic process. cellular amino acid derivative formation. cellular amino acid derivative synthesis. cellular modified amino acid anabolism. cellular modified amino acid biosynthesis. cellular modified amino acid formation. cellular modified amino acid synthesis. The chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the formation of compounds derived from amino acids, organic acids containing one or more amino substituents.
GO:0032305	positive regulation of icosanoid secretion. activation of icosanoid secretion. positive regulation of eicosanoid secretion. stimulation of icosanoid secretion. up regulation of icosanoid secretion. up-regulation of icosanoid secretion. upregulation of icosanoid secretion. Any process that activates or increases the frequency, rate or extent of the controlled release of an icosanoid from a cell.
GO:2001244	positive regulation of intrinsic apoptotic signaling pathway. positive regulation of intrinsic apoptosis. positive regulation of intrinsic apoptotic pathway. positive regulation of intrinsic apoptotic signalling pathway. positive regulation of mitochondrial-mediated apoptotic pathway. Any process that activates or increases the frequency, rate or extent of intrinsic apoptotic signaling pathway.
GO:0022904	respiratory electron transport chain. 6-phosphofructokinase reduction. dihydrobiopterin reduction. dihydrolipoamide reduction. dihydrolipoylprotein reduction. dihydropteridine reduction. electron transfer. other pathways of electron transport. oxidized glutathione reduction. protein-disulfide reduction. A process in which a series of electron carriers operate together to transfer electrons from donors such as NADH and FADH2 to any of several different terminal electron acceptors to generate a transmembrane electrochemical gradient.
GO:0002064	epithelial cell development. The process whose specific outcome is the progression of an epithelial cell over time, from its formation to the mature structure. An epithelial cell is a cell usually found in a two-dimensional sheet with a free surface.
GO:0043304	regulation of mast cell degranulation. regulation of mast cell granule exocytosis. Any process that modulates the frequency, rate, or extent of mast cell degranulation.
GO:0019221	cytokine-mediated signaling pathway. cytokine and chemokine mediated signaling pathway. cytokine mediated signalling pathway. The series of molecular signals initiated by the binding of a cytokine to a receptor on the surface of a cell, and ending with the regulation of a downstream cellular process, e.g. transcription.
GO:0051188	obsolete cofactor biosynthetic process. cofactor anabolism. cofactor biosynthesis. cofactor formation. cofactor synthesis. OBSOLETE. The chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the formation of a cofactor, a substance that is required for the activity of an enzyme or other protein.
GO:2000648	positive regulation of stem cell proliferation. Any process that activates or increases the frequency, rate or extent of stem cell proliferation.
GO:0006417	regulation of translation. regulation of protein anabolism. regulation of protein biosynthesis. regulation of protein formation. regulation of protein synthesis. Any process that modulates the frequency, rate or extent of the chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the formation of proteins by the translation of mRNA or circRNA.
GO:0001961	positive regulation of cytokine-mediated signaling pathway. activation of cytokine mediated signaling pathway. positive regulation of cytokine and chemokine mediated signaling pathway. positive regulation of cytokine mediated signaling pathway. positive regulation of cytokine mediated signalling pathway. stimulation of cytokine mediated signaling pathway. up regulation of cytokine mediated signaling pathway. up-regulation of cytokine mediated signaling pathway. upregulation of cytokine mediated signaling pathway. Any process that activates or increases the frequency, rate or extent of a cytokine mediated signaling pathway.
GO:0010893	positive regulation of steroid biosynthetic process. Any process that increases the frequency, rate or extent of the chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the formation of steroids, compounds with a 1,2,cyclopentanoperhydrophenanthrene nucleus.
GO:0016925	protein sumoylation. protein sumolation. small ubiquitin-related protein 1 conjugation. Smt3-protein conjugation. Smt3p-protein conjugation. SUMO-protein conjugation. sumoylation. The process in which a SUMO protein (small ubiquitin-related modifier) is conjugated to a target protein via an isopeptide bond between the carboxy-terminus of SUMO with an epsilon-amino group of a lysine residue of the target protein.
GO:0006968	cellular defense response. cellular defence response. intracellular defence response. intracellular defense response. A defense response that is mediated by cells.
GO:0030335	positive regulation of cell migration. activation of cell migration. stimulation of cell migration. up regulation of cell migration. up-regulation of cell migration. upregulation of cell migration. Any process that activates or increases the frequency, rate or extent of cell migration.
GO:0000398	mRNA splicing, via spliceosome. mRNA splicing. nuclear mRNA splicing via U12-type spliceosome. nuclear mRNA splicing via U2-type spliceosome. nuclear mRNA splicing, via spliceosome. pre-mRNA splicing. splicing AT-AC intron. splicing GT-AG intron. The joining together of exons from one or more primary transcripts of messenger RNA (mRNA) and the excision of intron sequences, via a spliceosomal mechanism, so that mRNA consisting only of the joined exons is produced.
GO:0051155	positive regulation of striated muscle cell differentiation. activation of striated muscle cell differentiation. stimulation of striated muscle cell differentiation. up regulation of striated muscle cell differentiation. up-regulation of striated muscle cell differentiation. upregulation of striated muscle cell differentiation. Any process that activates or increases the frequency, rate or extent of striated muscle cell differentiation.
GO:0046514	ceramide catabolic process. ceramide breakdown. ceramide catabolism. ceramide degradation. The chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the breakdown of ceramides, any N-acetylated sphingoid.
GO:0060562	epithelial tube morphogenesis. The process in which the anatomical structures of a tube are generated and organized from an epithelium. Epithelial tubes transport gases, liquids and cells from one site to another and form the basic structure of many organs and tissues, with tube shape and organization varying from the single-celled excretory organ in Caenorhabditis elegans to the branching trees of the mammalian kidney and insect tracheal system.
GO:0042759	long-chain fatty acid biosynthetic process. long-chain fatty acid anabolism. long-chain fatty acid biosynthesis. long-chain fatty acid formation. long-chain fatty acid synthesis. The chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the formation of long-chain fatty acids, any fatty acid with a chain length between C13 and C22.
GO:1903798	regulation of miRNA maturation. regulation of gene silencing by miRNA, production of miRNAs. regulation of microRNA biogenesis. regulation of microRNA biosynthesis. regulation of microRNA biosynthetic process. regulation of microRNA metabolic process. regulation of microRNA metabolism. regulation of microRNA processing. regulation of microRNA-mediated gene silencing, production of microRNAs. regulation of miRNA biogenesis. regulation of miRNA processing. regulation of miRNA-mediated gene silencing, production of miRNAs. regulation of production of microRNAs involved in gene silencing by microRNA. regulation of production of miRNAs involved in gene silencing by miRNA. Any process that modulates the frequency, rate or extent of maturation of miRNAs.
GO:0071392	cellular response to estradiol stimulus. cellular response to E2 stimulus. Any process that results in a change in state or activity of a cell (in terms of movement, secretion, enzyme production, gene expression, etc.) as a result of stimulus by estradiol, a C18 steroid hormone hydroxylated at C3 and C17 that acts as a potent estrogen.
GO:0051128	regulation of cellular component organization. regulation of cell organisation. regulation of cell organization. regulation of cellular component organisation. regulation of cellular component organization and biogenesis. Any process that modulates the frequency, rate or extent of a process involved in the formation, arrangement of constituent parts, or disassembly of cell structures, including the plasma membrane and any external encapsulating structures such as the cell wall and cell envelope.
GO:0048663	neuron fate commitment. neuron lineage restriction. neuronal lineage restriction. The process in which the developmental fate of a cell becomes restricted such that it will develop into a neuron.
GO:0007015	actin filament organization. actin filament organisation. regulation of actin filament localization. A process that is carried out at the cellular level which results in the assembly, arrangement of constituent parts, or disassembly of cytoskeletal structures comprising actin filaments. Includes processes that control the spatial distribution of actin filaments, such as organizing filaments into meshworks, bundles, or other structures, as by cross-linking.
GO:0061564	axon development. The progression of an axon over time. Covers axonogenesis (de novo generation of an axon) and axon regeneration (regrowth), as well as processes pertaining to the progression of the axon over time (fasciculation and defasciculation).
GO:0032376	positive regulation of cholesterol transport. activation of cholesterol transport. stimulation of cholesterol transport. up regulation of cholesterol transport. up-regulation of cholesterol transport. upregulation of cholesterol transport. Any process that activates or increases the frequency, rate or extent of the directed movement of cholesterol into, out of or within a cell, or between cells, by means of some agent such as a transporter or pore.
GO:0047496	vesicle transport along microtubule. microtubule-based vesicle localization. The directed movement of a vesicle along a microtubule, mediated by motor proteins. This process begins with the attachment of a vesicle to a microtubule, and ends when the vesicle reaches its final destination.
GO:0048844	artery morphogenesis. arterial morphogenesis. arteriogenesis. The process in which the anatomical structures of arterial blood vessels are generated and organized. Arteries are blood vessels that transport blood from the heart to the body and its organs.
GO:0035335	peptidyl-tyrosine dephosphorylation. The removal of phosphoric residues from peptidyl-O-phospho-tyrosine to form peptidyl-tyrosine.
GO:2001240	negative regulation of extrinsic apoptotic signaling pathway in absence of ligand. negative regulation of dependence receptor signaling pathway. negative regulation of extrinsic apoptosis in absence of ligand. negative regulation of extrinsic apoptotic signalling pathway in absence of ligand. Any process that stops, prevents or reduces the frequency, rate or extent of extrinsic apoptotic signaling pathway in absence of ligand.
GO:0006811	ion transport. The directed movement of charged atoms or small charged molecules into, out of or within a cell, or between cells, by means of some agent such as a transporter or pore.
GO:0045445	myoblast differentiation. myoblast cell differentiation. The process in which a relatively unspecialized cell acquires specialized features of a myoblast. A myoblast is a mononucleate cell type that, by fusion with other myoblasts, gives rise to the myotubes that eventually develop into striated muscle fibers.
GO:0032330	regulation of chondrocyte differentiation. Any process that modulates the frequency, rate or extent of chondrocyte differentiation.
GO:0031330	negative regulation of cellular catabolic process. down regulation of cellular catabolic process. down-regulation of cellular catabolic process. downregulation of cellular catabolic process. inhibition of cellular catabolic process. negative regulation of cellular breakdown. negative regulation of cellular catabolism. negative regulation of cellular degradation. Any process that stops, prevents, or reduces the frequency, rate or extent of the chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the breakdown of substances, carried out by individual cells.
GO:0048872	homeostasis of number of cells. cell population homeostasis. homeostasis of cell number. Any biological process involved in the maintenance of the steady-state number of cells within a population of cells.
GO:0006695	cholesterol biosynthetic process. cholesterol anabolism. cholesterol biosynthesis. cholesterol formation. cholesterol synthesis. The chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the formation of cholesterol, cholest-5-en-3 beta-ol, the principal sterol of vertebrates and the precursor of many steroids, including bile acids and steroid hormones.
GO:0048714	positive regulation of oligodendrocyte differentiation. activation of oligodendrocyte differentiation. stimulation of oligodendrocyte differentiation. up regulation of oligodendrocyte differentiation. up-regulation of oligodendrocyte differentiation. upregulation of oligodendrocyte differentiation. Any process that activates or increases the frequency, rate or extent of oligodendrocyte differentiation.
GO:1903955	positive regulation of protein targeting to mitochondrion. activation of mitochondrial protein import. activation of mitochondrial translocation. activation of protein import into mitochondrion. activation of protein targeting to mitochondria. activation of protein targeting to mitochondrion. activation of protein-mitochondrial targeting. positive regulation of mitochondrial protein import. positive regulation of mitochondrial translocation. positive regulation of protein import into mitochondrion. positive regulation of protein targeting to mitochondria. positive regulation of protein-mitochondrial targeting. up regulation of mitochondrial protein import. up regulation of mitochondrial translocation. up regulation of protein import into mitochondrion. up regulation of protein targeting to mitochondria. up regulation of protein targeting to mitochondrion. up regulation of protein-mitochondrial targeting. up-regulation of mitochondrial protein import. up-regulation of mitochondrial translocation. up-regulation of protein import into mitochondrion. up-regulation of protein targeting to mitochondria. up-regulation of protein targeting to mitochondrion. up-regulation of protein-mitochondrial targeting. upregulation of mitochondrial protein import. upregulation of mitochondrial translocation. upregulation of protein import into mitochondrion. upregulation of protein targeting to mitochondria. upregulation of protein targeting to mitochondrion. upregulation of protein-mitochondrial targeting. Any process that activates or increases the frequency, rate or extent of protein targeting to mitochondrion.
GO:0002833	positive regulation of response to biotic stimulus. activation of response to biotic stimulus. stimulation of response to biotic stimulus. up regulation of response to biotic stimulus. up-regulation of response to biotic stimulus. upregulation of response to biotic stimulus. Any process that activates or increases the frequency, rate, or extent of a response to biotic stimulus.
GO:0007269	neurotransmitter secretion. neurotransmitter release. neurotransmitter secretory pathway. The regulated release of neurotransmitter from the presynapse into the synaptic cleft via calcium-regulated exocytosis during synaptic transmission.
GO:0015696	ammonium transmembrane transport. ammonia transport. ammonium membrane transport. ammonium transport. The process in which ammonium is transported across a membrane. Ammonium is the cation NH4+.
GO:0005979	regulation of glycogen biosynthetic process. regulation of glycogen anabolism. regulation of glycogen biosynthesis. regulation of glycogen formation. regulation of glycogen synthesis. Any process that modulates the frequency, rate or extent of the chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the formation of glycogen.
GO:0048169	regulation of long-term neuronal synaptic plasticity. A process that modulates long-term neuronal synaptic plasticity, the ability of neuronal synapses to change long-term as circumstances require. Long-term neuronal synaptic plasticity generally involves increase or decrease in actual synapse numbers.
GO:1990090	cellular response to nerve growth factor stimulus. cellular response to NGF. A process that results in a change in state or activity of a cell (in terms of movement, secretion, enzyme production, gene expression, etc.) as a result of a nerve growth factor stimulus.
GO:0061333	renal tubule morphogenesis. The process in which the renal tubule is generated by specification of cell fate, through the maintenance of cell polarity, regulated cell proliferation and morphogenetic cell rearrangements, shape changes and growth. A renal tubule is a tube that filters, re-absorbs and secretes substances to rid an organism of waste and to play a role in fluid homeostasis.
GO:0045727	positive regulation of translation. activation of protein biosynthetic process. positive regulation of protein anabolism. positive regulation of protein biosynthesis. positive regulation of protein biosynthetic process. positive regulation of protein formation. positive regulation of protein synthesis. stimulation of protein biosynthetic process. up regulation of protein biosynthetic process. up-regulation of protein biosynthetic process. upregulation of protein biosynthetic process. Any process that activates or increases the frequency, rate or extent of the chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the formation of proteins by the translation of mRNA or circRNA.
GO:0001841	neural tube formation. neural tube morphogenesis. neurulation. The formation of a tube from the flat layer of ectodermal cells known as the neural plate. This will give rise to the central nervous system.
GO:0007213	G protein-coupled acetylcholine receptor signaling pathway. acetylcholine receptor signalling, muscarinic pathway. G-protein coupled acetylcholine receptor signaling pathway. muscarinic acetylcholine receptor signaling pathway. A G protein-coupled receptor signaling pathway initiated by a ligand binding to an acetylcholine receptor on the surface of a target cell, and ends with regulation of a downstream cellular process, e.g. transcription.
GO:0046605	regulation of centrosome cycle. Any process that modulates the frequency, rate or extent of the centrosome cycle, the processes of centrosome duplication and separation.
GO:0006541	glutamine metabolic process. glutamine metabolism. The chemical reactions and pathways involving glutamine, 2-amino-4-carbamoylbutanoic acid.
GO:0030522	intracellular receptor signaling pathway. intracellular receptor mediated signaling pathway. intracellular receptor-mediated signaling pathway. intracellular receptor-mediated signalling pathway. The series of molecular signals initiated by a ligand binding to a receptor located within a cell.
GO:0050901	leukocyte tethering or rolling. Transient adhesive interactions between leukocytes and endothelial cells lining blood vessels. Carbohydrates on circulating leukocytes bind selectins on the vessel wall causing the leukocytes to slow down and roll along the inner surface of the vessel wall. During this rolling motion, transitory bonds are formed and broken between selectins and their ligands. Typically the first step in cellular extravasation (the movement of leukocytes out of the circulatory system, towards the site of tissue damage or infection).
GO:0060732	positive regulation of inositol phosphate biosynthetic process. Any process that increases the rate, frequency or extent of inositol phosphate biosynthesis. Inositol phosphate biosynthetic processes are the chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the formation of an inositol phosphate, 1,2,3,4,5,6-cyclohexanehexol, with one or more phosphate groups attached.
GO:0034110	regulation of homotypic cell-cell adhesion. Any process that modulates the frequency, rate, or extent of homotypic cell-cell adhesion.
GO:1902905	positive regulation of supramolecular fiber organization. activation of fibril organisation. activation of fibril organization. positive regulation of fibril organisation. up regulation of fibril organisation. up regulation of fibril organization. up-regulation of fibril organisation. up-regulation of fibril organization. upregulation of fibril organisation. upregulation of fibril organization. Any process that activates or increases the frequency, rate or extent of supramolecular fiber organization.
GO:1904706	negative regulation of vascular associated smooth muscle cell proliferation. down regulation of vascular smooth muscle cell proliferation. down regulation of VSMC proliferation. down-regulation of vascular smooth muscle cell proliferation. down-regulation of VSMC proliferation. downregulation of vascular smooth muscle cell proliferation. downregulation of VSMC proliferation. inhibition of vascular smooth muscle cell proliferation. inhibition of VSMC proliferation. negative regulation of vascular smooth muscle cell proliferation. negative regulation of VSMC proliferation. Any process that stops, prevents or reduces the frequency, rate or extent of vascular smooth muscle cell proliferation.
GO:0031397	negative regulation of protein ubiquitination. down regulation of protein ubiquitination. down-regulation of protein ubiquitination. downregulation of protein ubiquitination. inhibition of protein ubiquitination. Any process that stops, prevents, or reduces the frequency, rate or extent of the addition of ubiquitin groups to a protein.
GO:0031349	positive regulation of defense response. activation of defense response. stimulation of defense response. up regulation of defense response. up-regulation of defense response. upregulation of defense response. Any process that activates or increases the frequency, rate or extent of a defense response.
GO:0051092	positive regulation of NF-kappaB transcription factor activity. activation of NF-kappaB. activation of NF-kappaB transcription factor. NF-kappaB activation. Any process that activates or increases the frequency, rate or extent of activity of the transcription factor NF-kappaB.
GO:0044703	multi-organism reproductive process. A biological process that directly contributes to the process of producing new individuals, involving another organism.
GO:0061647	histone H3-K9 modification. The modification of histone H3 at a lysine in position 9 of the histone.
GO:0002922	positive regulation of humoral immune response. activation of humoral immune response. stimulation of humoral immune response. up regulation of humoral immune response. up-regulation of humoral immune response. upregulation of humoral immune response. Any process that activates or increases the frequency, rate, or extent of a humoral immune response.
GO:0002712	regulation of B cell mediated immunity. regulation of B lymphocyte mediated immunity. regulation of B-cell mediated immunity. regulation of B-lymphocyte mediated immunity. Any process that modulates the frequency, rate, or extent of B cell mediated immunity.
GO:0030225	macrophage differentiation. macrophage cell differentiation. The process in which a relatively unspecialized monocyte acquires the specialized features of a macrophage.
GO:0031644	regulation of nervous system process. regulation of neurological process. regulation of neurological system process. regulation of neurophysiological process. Any process that modulates the frequency, rate or extent of a neurophysiological process, an organ system process carried out by any of the organs or tissues of the nervous system.
GO:0150065	regulation of deacetylase activity. Any process that modulates the frequency, rate or extent of deacetylase activity.
GO:0007616	long-term memory. The memory process that deals with the storage, retrieval and modification of information a long time (typically weeks, months or years) after receiving that information. This type of memory is typically dependent on gene transcription regulated by second messenger activation.
GO:0006749	glutathione metabolic process. glutathione metabolism. oxidized glutathione reduction. The chemical reactions and pathways involving glutathione, the tripeptide glutamylcysteinylglycine, which acts as a coenzyme for some enzymes and as an antioxidant in the protection of sulfhydryl groups in enzymes and other proteins; it has a specific role in the reduction of hydrogen peroxide (H2O2) and oxidized ascorbate, and it participates in the gamma-glutamyl cycle.
GO:0098869	cellular oxidant detoxification. Any process carried out at the cellular level that reduces or removes the toxicity superoxide radicals or hydrogen peroxide.
GO:2001025	positive regulation of response to drug. positive regulation of drug resistance. positive regulation of drug susceptibility/resistance. Any process that activates or increases the frequency, rate or extent of response to drug.
GO:0046879	hormone secretion. The regulated release of hormones, substances with a specific regulatory effect on a particular organ or group of cells.
GO:0048468	cell development. terminal differentiation. The process whose specific outcome is the progression of the cell over time, from its formation to the mature structure. Cell development does not include the steps involved in committing a cell to a specific fate.
GO:1901068	guanosine-containing compound metabolic process. guanosine-containing compound metabolism. guanosines metabolic process. guanosines metabolism. The chemical reactions and pathways involving guanosine-containing compounds (guanosines).
GO:0014074	response to purine-containing compound. response to purine. Any process that results in a change in state or activity of a cell or an organism (in terms of movement, secretion, enzyme production, gene expression, etc.) as a result of a purine-containing compound stimulus.
GO:0003148	outflow tract septum morphogenesis. The process in which the anatomical structures of the outflow tract septum are generated and organized. The outflow tract septum is a partition in the outflow tract.
GO:0042136	neurotransmitter biosynthetic process. neurotransmitter anabolism. neurotransmitter biosynthesis. neurotransmitter biosynthesis and storage. neurotransmitter biosynthetic process and storage. neurotransmitter formation. neurotransmitter synthesis. The chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the formation of any of a group of substances that are released on excitation from the axon terminal of a presynaptic neuron of the central or peripheral nervous system and travel across the synaptic cleft to either excite or inhibit the target cell.
GO:0007601	visual perception. sense of sight. sensory visual perception. vision. The series of events required for an organism to receive a visual stimulus, convert it to a molecular signal, and recognize and characterize the signal. Visual stimuli are detected in the form of photons and are processed to form an image.
GO:0006283	transcription-coupled nucleotide-excision repair. TC-NER. TCR. transcription-coupled NER. transcription-coupled repair. The nucleotide-excision repair process that carries out preferential repair of DNA lesions on the actively transcribed strand of the DNA duplex. In addition, the transcription-coupled nucleotide-excision repair pathway is required for the recognition and repair of a small subset of lesions that are not recognized by the global genome nucleotide excision repair pathway.
GO:0045766	positive regulation of angiogenesis. activation of angiogenesis. stimulation of angiogenesis. up regulation of angiogenesis. up-regulation of angiogenesis. upregulation of angiogenesis. Any process that activates or increases angiogenesis.
GO:0016049	cell growth. cell expansion. cellular growth. growth of cell. metabolic process resulting in cell growth. metabolism resulting in cell growth. non-developmental cell growth. non-developmental growth of a unicellular organism. The process in which a cell irreversibly increases in size over time by accretion and biosynthetic production of matter similar to that already present.
GO:0030855	epithelial cell differentiation. The process in which a relatively unspecialized cell acquires specialized features of an epithelial cell, any of the cells making up an epithelium.
